prayer the Second Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) . Phil Brickell John Grady Mike Reader Rushanara Ali Aphra Brandreth Chris Bryant Danny Chambers Harriet Cross Ashley Dalton Ashley Fox Mark Garnier Tracy Gilbert Georgia Gould Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Emma Hardy Richard Holden Christine Jardine Mike Kane Peter Lamb Justin Madders Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Stephen Morgan James Murray Luke Pollard Sarah Russell Sarah Sackman Lisa Smart Jeff Smith Gregory Stafford Mark Tami Matt Turmaine Christian Wakeford Catherine West Martin Wrigley Kate Dearden Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 1 , Noes 33 . the Deputy Speaker declare that the question be not decide because few than 40 member have participate in the Division ( Standing Order no . 41 ) . Animal Welfare ( Import of Dogs , Cats and Ferrets ) Bill Third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I be delighted to present this Bill for its Third Reading . I begin by state how grateful I be to all the Members from across the House who have engage with this Bill , especially during the Public Bill Committee . it become quite clear very quickly how passionate every Committee member be about animal welfare , and we have a huge amount of contribution , with many take the opportunity to name check their own pet from home . I think I have hear every cat name during my year in clinical practice , but I have to say that I be really impress by the imagination of the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) , who reveal that her cat be name Clement Catlee and Mo Meowlam . my many year in veterinary practice , work both in Winchester and in Romsey — in your beautiful constituency , Madam Deputy Speaker — as well as around the rest of country , have show I just how deeply the people of this nation care for their pet . they be companion , and they be sometimes sole companion to people who live alone . I have lose count of the number of time , especially during covid , that we be treat animal and someone would say , " I haven ' t see anyone else for month , and my dog or my cat be my only companion . " pet be absolutely vital for many people ' s mental health , especially when we have an epidemic of loneliness . pet be sometimes part of the antidote to that . my constituency be the home of Canine Partners , the organisation that provide canine companion for individual with disability . I just want to reflect on the positive effect those dog have on the people who care for they . there be so many fantastic organisation like Canine Partners . another one be the Cinnamon Trust . if a person end up go into hospital for an extended period of time , the Cinnamon Trust will take care of their pet for they and give it back to they when they be discharge . that take away so much of the worry . my partner Emma and I have two dog : Frank and Moose . Frank have be mention before in Parliament , because I manage to wish he a very happy 15th birthday recently . he be a pug cross border terrier . I think the good way to describe how he look , with his undershot jaw and his big buggy eye , be quirky . I admit that he get a mixed reception ; one Liberal Democrat Member see a picture of he and call he ugly , which I be horrendously offend by . [ hon . member : " Shame ! " ] it be awful — shame ! we be at one of my friend ' house for dinner recently , and one of their child look at Frank and say , " Frank be really ugly . " the other child say , " you shouldn ' t say that , because he might have be in an accident . " it be possibly a genetic accident , but I want to make clear on the record that beneath his appearance , he be a gentle and love companion , and he bring a smile to the face of everyone who see he . I know that many other member , as well as people across the country , will feel as strongly about protect animal welfare as I and other vet do . pet like Frank and Moose have such profound impact on our everyday life and happiness , and it be crucial that we do all we can to ensure dog like they be protect from the cruel practice involve in pet smuggling . all of the pet who have be mention in this Chamber , and other who have not be , be close to our heart and serve to remind we of the importance of this Bill . although my pet and yours , Madam Deputy Speaker — Alfie and — Alfie and Luna . Alfie and Luna . they be cockapoo — I be sure they keep you very fit . although our pet , and all the pet of the other hon . member who be in the Chamber today , be well care for and have love home , that be not the case for all cat and dog in the UK . as a vet , I have see the devastating consequence of puppy smuggling . it be unimaginably cruel to separate puppy and kitten from their mother at a very young age and then bring they across border in substandard condition , where they be sell for maximum profit by unscrupulous trader who prioritise profit over welfare . I thank my hon . friend for introduce this Bill , which I know mean a lot to the great number of my constituent who have contact I . they be particularly concerned about the condition that puppy be smuggle in , but also that many animal come into this country illegally bring condition that we have eradicate here , or have crop ear and tail . they be very keen to see my hon . friend ' s Bill pass , but can he assure we that more can be do in future to make sure , in particular , that we stamp out those illness ? I very much appreciate that intervention from my hon . friend . yes , one important part of this Bill — which I will come on to — be biosecurity . there be a lot of disease that we do not see in the UK that can affect human as well , such as rabie and Brucella canis . there be also disease such as distemper that affect other dog ; we do not see those disease in the UK , but there be a risk of they come in and become endemic . my partner Emma , who be here today , be an epidemiologist at the University of Surrey , study disease such as rabie in dog and the risk of they transfer across border . it be a very live issue . those who purchase an animal be often completely unaware of the smuggling process , which be devastating . when people go to buy a puppy , they be completely unaware that there be a reasonable chance that it have be smuggle in from abroad . my hon . friend be lay out clearly the need for change . a number of my constituent , include Ann from Bredbury , Shannon from Marple and Ashley from High Lane , have be in touch to ask I to support he in his endeavour . People be stagger that some of these practice be not yet outlaw . do he agree that some of his proposal in the Bill be close loophole that people already expect to be close ? that be an insightful intervention from my hon . friend . yes , most people be shock at the sheer scale of puppy smuggling . the Dogs Trust do a study look at one of the online platform with puppy advert , and up to 50 % of those advert turn out to be for puppy that have possibly be smuggle in from abroad . in the last 12 month , one in five vet say they have treat animal that they believe have be smuggle from abroad . this be not a niche issue ; it be a systemic issue within the pet trade , and these loophole need to be close . I thank the hon . member for introduce this fantastic Bill , which do important thing for animal welfare . sadly , my constituency have a problem with dog - on - dog attack , which be truly distress to their owner . the overwhelming majority of dog owner in my constituency be incredibly responsible and keep their dog under control at all time , but a tiny minority be do a great deal of damage . do the hon . Member have any thought on what we could do about that ? Dog - on - dog attack be a huge issue . it largely come down to socialisation when they be puppy . it be make a lot bad during the covid pandemic when people could not attend normal puppy training class , and puppy could not walk and meet other dog or have normal training regime . I will also come on to the problem of dog have illegally crop ear — when their ear be cut off — because dog communicate by body language , and part of their body language be ear position . if they can not move their ear , they can not communicate in normal way to other dog that they be not a threat , and they be more likely to get into fight and difficulty . it be the same if their tail be cut off and they can not show whether they be happy , sad , angry or confident . when owner buy a new puppy , often they do not realise that it have be smuggle and take from its mother far too soon . that can cause a lot of medical issue and other disease , such as parvo virus . it be not unusual for someone to buy a new puppy and , within the first week or two , have to go to the vet repeatedly with a very sick animal , whose problem be often quite hard to diagnose . sometimes these disease be fatal . there be few thing more heartbreaking than a family who , within a few day of ownership , not only have an expensive veterinary bill but have lose their new puppy . I thank the hon . member for introduce this important Bill , which I support . he talk about the impact of disease that puppy might have when they be bring in . do he agree that there be also disease that have potential impact on human health , often for the veterinary surgeon or nurse who be look after they ? for example , disease such as Brucella canis could lead to miscarriage for a lady if she be look after one of those puppy while pregnant . I know that the hon . Lady speak with authority as her husband be a vet . I thank she for sit on the Committee and for push the Bill through . she also have a private member ' s Bill on animal welfare . she make an important point that have be consume the veterinary profession for the last couple of year . a lot of dog bring in from abroad have a disease call Brucella canis , which can affect human . it can cause infertility and miscarriage . obviously , if a dog have be illegally smuggle in , owner might not be aware of the risk because they assume it have be bear in the UK . it be a huge human health risk as well . just last night , I be still receive message from veterinary colleague about treat animal that they strongly suspect have be smuggle in because of the type of illness that they be see . that be why we be strive to end those practice by deliver the measure in the Bill . the Bill close loophole in our pet travel rule that be currently exploit . it do so by reduce the number of animal permit per non - commercial movement from five per person to five per vehicle — include vehicle on board a train or ferry — and to three per person for foot or air passenger . careful consideration have be give to set these limit , balance the need to disrupt illegal trade with minimise the impact on genuine pet owner . to underpin this , only an owner , not an authorised person , will be permit to sign a declaration that the movement of a dog or cat be non - commercial . crucially , the Bill place a duty on the Government to use these regulation - make power to deliver three key measure : a ban on the import of puppy and kitten under six month old ; a ban on the import of heavily pregnant dog and cat that be more than 42 day pregnant ; and a ban on the import of dog and cat that have be mutilate . raise the minimum age at which dog and cat can be import will ensure that very young animal be not take from their mother too soon . separate a puppy or kitten from its mother too young have huge implication for its health and welfare . I thank the hon . member for bring forward this very important Bill . the point about very young animal be really pertinent . in my family , we have two kitten . they be bring into our house at an appropriate age , and we can see the importance of their first relationship after birth . one of my constituent own ferret , and I meet both those ferret at civic event in my constituency of Watford . they clearly have personality , and it be really important that this Bill seek to protect they . yes , ferret be some of the most quirky and engage creature you can ever meet — great personality . I have to say I hate they come into the consult room , because you can smell that they have be there for several hour afterwards , but they bring a lot of joy and pleasure to the people who own they . we anticipate that trader may respond to an increase in the minimum age for import puppy and kitten by increase the number of pregnant dog and cat that they import . the evidence from stakeholder suggest that even at present , trader be import very heavily pregnant dog and cat in order to benefit from their trade as soon as the puppy and kitten be bear , because it be much cheap and easy to bring in an animal before it give birth than to try to move a whole load of puppy . we know that some dog be be take back and forth ; they get pregnant again , and then be bring back to give birth . it really be abuse of these bitch . they be basically puppy factory . the transportation of heavily pregnant dog and cat be dangerous to the health and welfare of both the mother and the offspring , especially in heatwave , give the heat inside van when they have a few pregnant dog in the back , so it be paramount that we remain on the front foot and use the Bill to prevent this practice become commonplace . the Bill will raise the minimum age at which cat and dog can be import to ensure that very young animal be not take from their mother too soon , and that we can age puppy and kitten more accurately . currently , the minimum age be technically 15 week , but it be very hard even for vet to accurately age animal . by the time they get to six month old , they have lose all their deciduous tooth — their baby tooth — and have mostly adult tooth , so we can be much more confident about their age . raise the minimum age will be much well for their welfare , but it will also help tackle the criminal ' business model , because the demand be for puppy , not dog that be over six month . we hope that if people can not bring in dog at six month old , it will take away the incentive to try to get they across the border . I come to mutilation , which include ear cropping , the declawing of cat and tail docking . it be very cruel and should not be tolerate . for anyone who be not aware , ear cropping be when someone cut a dog ' s ear off to make it look more aggressive . it often happen to breed such as XL bully and Dobermanns . it have be illegal in the UK for more than a decade — since , I think , 2013 . People be still perform the procedure in the UK , without veterinary supervision and probably with no anaesthetic , and then claim that the dog have be bring in from abroad , because it be still legal to bring they in from abroad . I receive message last night from about a dozen vet , say that just in the last couple of month , they have treat dog that have clearly have their ear hack off in the UK , and that now have infection and need the rest of the ear amputate . this be go on now . the great thing about close that loophole be that there will be no excuse for own a dog in the UK with cropped ear , and no one will be able to claim that such a dog have be bring in from abroad . one of the great beauty of this Bill be that it apply to Scotland , too . do the hon . Gentleman agree that it will make the prosecution of ear cropping - relate case easy in Scotland , for the benefit of our wonderful dog ? clarity about the fact that there be no excuse for have a dog with crop ear should make prosecution and enforcement of the law a lot more straightforward . I will read out a message that I receive from a veterinary colleague last night : " just see for repeat med check this week , 3yo crop Doberman , import but clearly be very young and Owner be not give any passport or paper . he have his ear crop ( supposedly do abroad before be import , but be probably do in the UK ) . lovely bright dog until anyone put a hand towards his head when it will explode with aggression . big enough dog to be life threaten if a child approach he . now exist near permanently muzzle and dose up on Prozac . it ' s madden , frustrating and pitiful all at the same time . " cut a dog ' s ear off with no anaesthetic be obviously physically harmful , but it can also affect the dog ' s psychology for the rest of their life , so they will not let anyone go near their head . it be quite interesting ; we know that dog love to be stroke , particularly on their head , and study show that both a human ' s and a dog ' s cortisol level go down when a human pet a dog . the relationship be mutual and symbiotic . deprive an animal of that type of relationship for the rest of its life be really upsetting . what be the point in own a dog if you can not even stroke it ? it be a real shame . there be no reason to mutilate an animal in this way . it be a cruel practice , only carry out for aesthetic reason , and the Bill will help we to close that loophole for good . the Bill be amend in Committee to allow the appropriate authority to exempt pet owner from the new requirement in article 5 and 5A of the pet travel regulation in exceptional and compelling circumstance . this aim to ensure that the new measure will not disadvantage protect group such as assistance dog user . it will also provide flexibility in emergency situation , such as case where genuine owner can no long travel within five day of their pet , for example because they have a medical emergency . I know that have cause some concern , and I reassure hon . member that it be intend for use in limited circumstance , which must be exceptional or compelling . exemption seek will need to be consider on a case - by - case basis , and the Government have provide reassurance that no blanket exemption will be grant . finally , in Committee the Bill be amend to remove the power that would have enable the Secretary of State to make consequential change that might have be require as a result of change that the Bill make to the pet travel rule and correspond commercial import rule . further consideration of the legislation have take place since the Bill be introduce , and we have great confidence that no further consequential amendment will be require . should far change to the pet travel scheme legal framework be need , the Government may be able to make they use exist power in other legislation . the Bill will play a pivotal role in disrupt the cruel pet smuggling trade , a share objective of member from across the House . it have be a joy to see the House unite on animal welfare , and to see the commitment to work together across party to end puppy smuggling . I urge all member to support these crucial measure . I thank the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) for bring forward the Bill , and for all his work to get it to this stage . we should also thank the former hon . member for North Devon , who I understand bring forward the Bill in the previous Parliament ; it do not quite get through Parliament before the general election . it be good to see propose legislation move from one Parliament to the next and have cross - party support . the hon . Gentleman represent Winchester . Madam Deputy Speaker , you and I share a relationship , as I be a Romsonian and you represent my parent , but one of my first job be in Winchester , in the Esso garage by Peter Symonds college , so I know the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency very well . that be the job that get I through university , and earn I money in the summer holiday . one of my proud achievement be be give the opportunity to step up and take on the night shift , which be double pay . for a student , that be very exciting . unfortunately , I lose that job because I fall asleep on my shift and someone steal the carwash while I be asleep . yes . I be demote back to daytime shift , but Winchester always have a place in my heart . it be a great relief to know that two member of this House sabotage their petrochemical career quite early on . I have a job in a garage as an 18 - year - old — I can not remember the brand . I make the fatal mistake of fill up a car salesman ' s brand new car with diesel , when it be an unleaded car . that be why I never rise to the top of British Petroleum . I should state for the record , and for colleague in Hansard , that I be not my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) , as be suggest early this week . for those online , I be not my hon . friend the Member for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) , either , whom I be quote as be this week . nor be I a member of a much bad version of one Direction . that idea go viral this week , thank to one of my former Labour colleague , who temporarily make I Twitter famous . I be a very passionate member of the Labour Animal Welfare Society , and I would like to thank the society for all its hard work during the election period on this campaign . when we put out social medium post and speak to resident right across the political spectrum , it be very clear that there be real support for change and much tough animal welfare measure . the Conservatives , when in government , fail to take action on e - collar ; on ban import from trophy hunting , fur and foie gra ; on ban snare and other inhumane device that be already ban in Wales and Scotland ; and — this be really critical for every pet owner — on the theft of pet . it be really positive to see these measure now come forward . on my hon . friend ' s point about social medium , do he have a view on the importance of have a dog in your social medium during a general election campaign ? it seem to be an almost compulsory element of many of the campaign I be involve in , include mine . surely the Bill be critical to ensure the good nature of the animal appear in those social medium post ? I completely agree . I be a candidate for 17 month , and for a long while I run # DoorstepDogs ; every week , I take a photo of my favourite dog that I meet on the doorstep . unfortunately , I have give up on that . maybe I should bring it back . that be a very good point about social medium . one reason why there be such an interest in dog with cropped ear be that a lot of influencer on Instagram and other social medium platform pose with dog , or show that they have new dog , with cropped ear . many people be not aware that it be a mutilation ; they think it be how dog ' ear normally look . that drive a demand for dog that look like that . we will be run a " stop the crop " campaign to try to get influencer and company that use crop - eare dog in advert to stop do that , so that cropping be not normalise among the general public . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that point . it be fantastic to hear about that campaign , and I would fully support it . but there be also positive in the world of pet on social medium . I follow an account , Southend Dog Training , which have help I with free advice to ensure that Dash , my little Chorkie — full name : Dash Potato Evans - Reader — sit , walk and do not lick so many people every time we meet they . he do not come out with I on the doorstep , because while I be try to talk about serious policy issue , he be more keen to get in the house and explore . in all seriousness , the Bill be really important . it close loophole and stop the shameless exploitation of dog , cat and ferret — as I learn from the Clerk as I walk in , ferret be include in the Bill because of their alignment on rabie categorisation . it be fantastic to see a really well - rounded Bill of this nature . it will stop puppy be strip from their parent and smuggle into the UK under the age of six month , and it will stop heavily mutate dog be bring in , as well as heavily pregnant dog , who just become puppy farm . I be at a food conference in Northampton yesterday , and when I tell people there that I be come in to Parliament today to talk about puppy , they think it be a little strange . but I explain the loophole , and they be not fully aware of what go on . it be really important that we take this kind of action to close those loophole . first , I must confess that I be feel increasingly guilty for not have mention my cockapoo , Brora , since everybody else be mention their pet . she have be a social medium star — she pose in a Scotland football strip just before the last championship . the hon . Gentleman make a good point about people not be aware and need reassurance . when we buy Brora five year ago , I remember it be on my mind that we have to be careful , because there be a lot of people sell puppy on the internet , apparently genuinely . I have hear from constituent who buy a puppy , unaware of the puppy trade , and then face the sort of issue that my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) mention . do the hon . Gentleman agree that it be important that the public take away from this Bill an awareness of those danger ? I could not agree more . it be critical that we do more in Parliament to raise these issue . I also welcome some of the minor amendment make in Committee , which strengthen the Bill far and will reassure people , particularly in the limited circumstance in which the Bill may have unintended consequence . it be the story of my life that I be a dog lover and an animal lover . every time I come home from Parliament , Dash be there wait for I . very fortunately , he come with I when I come down to London , and he come with I back to Northampton . it make my life so much well , as you say , to come home , decompress — the hon . Gentleman be do a marvellous job , but he have use " you " a number of time , as indeed have other member in their intervention . while I be on the subject of intervention , it be fascinating for I personally to hear about the social medium account of everybody ' s dog , but could we please try to keep intervention within scope of the Bill ? thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — you make a good point . as I be say , when I come home and see Dash , it be a great opportunity to decompress . I agree with the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) that that be such a valuable part of own a dog . in closing , I want to thank a number of organisation that have help I and other to really understand this issue — four Paws , Battersea and the Countryside Alliance have provide great briefing and have help I and other to understand it . today be a victory for common sense and animal welfare . one way or another , we will make sure that we improve animal welfare right in this place . I congratulate the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) on introduce this important Bill . it be an absolute honour and a privilege to speak on this subject . I have speak on animal welfare in two Westminster Hall debate in the past month , and it be an important topic to speak about on the anniversary of my election , so I be grateful for the opportunity . I be also an animal lover . I know that all right hon . and hon . member present be extremely well informed , so the fact and information I will share be not for their benefit . I want to use this opportunity to provide some education for community across our country and to share the message far afield , beyond this place . as Mahatma Gandhi say : " the greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judge by the way its animal be treat . " we often say we be a nation of animal lover , and today be a test : if we legislate , we must legislate like one . cruel practice like smuggle pregnant animal or separate young animal from their mother at an early age violate all level of mercy . these act cause unnecessary suffering and must be stop . have research and have information provide by my team , I find the scale of the issue staggering . between 2015 and 2019 , dog import under the pet travel scheme rise by 86 % . many of those be illegal or misclassified commercial import . a single journey from Romania to the UK be over 1 , 500 mile . puppy as young as 13 week be transport in cramped , filthy van , we have hear about cropped ear , a cruel thing to do to any animal . More than 21 , 000 dog with cropped ear be now estimate to be in the UK population — a result of the legal grey area that we hope the Bill will address . I pay tribute and express my gratitude , I be sure on behalf of the House , to the many charity and organisation that look after animal welfare and ensure issue be bring to the attention of this place , and that be on the ground help : Battersea , Dogs Trust , Countryside Alliance and many more that be local , regional , national and international . it be important to share some of the key issue around biosecurity and health risk . many smuggled puppy and kitten arrive in the UK without the core vaccination require to prevent rabie , distemper , parvovirus and other life threaten illness . these animal be often too young to have receive their vaccination or to have develop any immunity . that be dangerous for they and also pose a serious public health risk to our community and domestic pet population . the current system allow these animal to enter the country with minimal scrutiny , create a perfect entry point for zoonotic disease — those that can jump from animal to human . I will share two or three case study from Battersea . Milo , a six - month - old dog rescue by Battersea , have be brutally mutilate . his ear be hack and crudely stitch shut with cotton thread , which have be leave to fester . that be not just illegal ; it be deliberate torture masquerade as aesthetic enhancement . we need to tackle the glorification of mutilate animal on social medium or any other platform that do not make it clear to the people view that it be not the natural state of the animal — it have be mutilate . that be an important point that I hope , through this debate , will become more well know . to give some more example , sunny , Ray and Sky , three Cane Corso puppy , be traffic over 1 , 500 mile from Romania . they be just 13 week old — under the legal import age — and unvaccinate , mutilate and force into cramped , stressful condition . their ear have be crop and their tail dock — all illegal here but still allow under import loophole . Snowy , a heavily pregnant dog , be smuggle during the final 10 % of her pregnancy , in breach of current law . she endure the journey in squalid , dark and suffocating condition without adequate food or water . these journey not only traumatise the animal but endanger the life of unborn puppy and the mother carry they . I do not have much experience of the importation of animal into our country until my preparation for this and previous debate . I be aware that in my constituency there be an illegal trade of puppy , which be keep in small , cramped cage outside until they reach the age when they can be sell . these cruelly treat puppy can be sell for thousand and thousand of pound . I hope that part of the work we be do on the Bill can also look to address that . on the exploitation of loophole , we have hear that the current pet travel scheme design for holidaymaker have be systematically abuse by organise puppy trafficker . breeder mislabel commercial sale as personal pet movement to sidestep import rule , veterinary check and regulation . smuggle heavily pregnant dog be a deliberate move , allow trafficker to appear legitimate by show the puppy with their mother , deceive buyer into think that the litter be breed responsibly in the UK . these be not one - off case . this be organised animal trafficking , often international in scale , that thrive on weak legislation , poor enforcement and consumer deception . without the Bill , we be effectively enable profit from pain through a loophole - ride system that be ripe for abuse . on constituent engagement on this issue , through Battersea alone over 14 , 680 people across 649 constituency have contact their mp to urge they to support the Bill . this be a groundswell of support that cut across party line . while I have only have one email from a constituent directly about the Bill , I have have over 87 email in this Parliament from constituent call for strong animal welfare protection . this speak to a powerful public mandate . People be demand action to end the suffering of trafficked animal and uphold the UK ' s reputation as a leader on welfare . pass this Bill be the right and compassionate thing to do . when one think of dog and their close relationship with human , a good place to start be literature . a great novel about our relationship with dog be " White Fang " by Jack London , a great american socialist writer . when it come to cat , I can do no well than Natsume S ō seki , the great japanese writer who write a series of novel about cat observe their human master with great wit and intelligence . as a boy , I have three dog — or rather , my father do . they be Pistol , Poins and Muttley . my dad believe that dog should be name after shakespearean character , hence Pistol and Poins , but the balance of power shift in the family , and then we have Muttley , the Hanna - Barbera dog — though we draw the line at Huckleberry Hound . something very important about the dog be that they be all stray . they have great emotional difficulty in be able to trust human because they be mistreat when they be young . that be why the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) be right to emphasise the real damage that cruelty to animal can do . the next - door neighbour have two cat , Butch and Cuddles , and the clue be somewhat in their name ; they be stray cat . Butch take a long time to trust the next - door neighbour and my family and I , but he do trust we now . if animal suffer cruelty when they be young , it cause long - term psychological damage . I be delighted that the Bill extend to Scotland . this House should not be afraid to legislate for the welfare of people or animal in Scotland , so I commend the hon . member for Winchester for seek to legislate for Scotland ; it be very important to my constituent . we have the Dogs Trust in Broomhouse in my constituency , which my good friend Councillor Lalley take I to visit . the people there do a huge amount of good work with stray dog . may I take a moment to mention Dobermann Rescue , base in my constituency , which also do fantastic work ? I be sure my hon . friend will join I in commend its work . I will join my hon . friend in commend the work of that Dobermann charity . dog like Dobermanns and german shepherd have a certain reputation , but they be very kind , love and loyal , so I commend work that be do to help Dobermanns . there be a great deal of support in my constituency for the Bill , which have many important element . restrict the commercial importation and non - commercial movement of dog , cat and ferret into the UK on the ground of welfare be an important objective . as the Bill be implement , which I hope it will be , we must redouble our effort to bring to people ' s attention how wrong the importation of these animal be . the hon . member for Winchester mention campaign on social medium , and he be entirely correct to do so . the scale of the problem be large . People be import these animal for commercial gain , and it involve a great deal of cruelty . there have be a rise in the market for pregnant dog and cat to be bring in . the hon . Member be right to talk about the mutilation of animal . People have know for decade , if not long , that the mutilation of animal — tail docking and so on — be cruel and wrong and should not be take place in this day and age . it be utterly barbaric . the Bill be very important for public health , as the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) say — dog that have not be test for disease will not be able to come here — and it will help to fulfil Labour party manifesto pledge on animal welfare . it will also improve enforcement . I have some experience of that from talk to former colleague , and the Bill will make it much easy to enforce certain element of exist animal cruelty law , for example on the mutilation of dog . that be very important . Mention have be make of dog on Twitter feed during the general election campaign . I admit that , during the campaign and for many month beforehand , I too have a hobby of take picture of dog and post they on Twitter . I have get out of the habit , so I thank the hon . member for Winchester for remind I that it be quite a pleasant thing to do . it be probably well for my constituent , too ; they probably find it much more interesting than my political comment and other interesting observation I may have . they may , in fact , come to the view that I be more perceptive and expert on dog than on politic , although I hope they will not find that out for another five year or so . as a vet , the hon . member for Winchester speak from a position of real expertise . he outline why the Bill be important , and he be to be commend for bring it to the House . I rise to support this vital Bill , and I commend the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) for bring it to the House . as all member will know , animal welfare be a major concern for our constituent , and nowhere be that more true than Bolton West . the Bill have be long await , and I be delighted that this Parliament will finally deliver where previous Parliaments be unable to deliver . we be a nation of animal lover , and it should be a point of pride that , to reflect that , we strive to have the tough animal welfare protection anywhere in the world . my mailbox and postbag reflect the animal welfare concern that I have and that we have hear during the debate . Dean , a constituent of mine in Daisy Hill , email to say : " accord to respondent to the Cats Protection Cats and their Stats ( CATS ) 2024 survey , 4 % of the cat that be obtain in the 12 month precede the survey be from abroad . the importation of cat and dog with mutilation ( such as declaw and ear cropping ) , lack of vaccination and health check , and dangerous transport condition present a significant risk to animal welfare . " we know that the UK ' s biosecurity be compromise by pet smuggling , give that animal may carry transmittable disease such as rabie and tapeworm , which put both human and animal at risk . the rise price of cat , in particular pedigree , mean that illegally import cat be become increasingly lucrative for criminal . Cats Protection statistic show that 45 % of the cat obtain in the past 12 month be pedigree ; for the first time , more pedigree cat than moggie be acquire in a 12 - month period . the Bill be a vital opportunity to put in place the measure to tackle pet smuggling that could not complete their passage in the last Parliament . will my hon . friend join I in thank the volunteer across Cats Protection and at Edinburgh Dog and Cat Home for the work that they do every day to keep rescue animal safe ? do he agree that those charity need our help and support , and that the Bill will help to amplify the work that they do ? I will also put it on the record that I have two rescue animal — a cat and a dog — who both live to 19 year of age . sadly , they be no long with we , but for the sake of Hansard I want to mention their name : Cannie and Roohi . my hon . friend be absolutely right to talk about the critical work of animal welfare charity across the country . they can make such a difference . diane in Ladybridge email to say : " this Bill be a major step forward in improve the life of animal . " she be delighted that it will make it " much hard to exploit pet travel rule to illegally traffic puppy and kitten breed in horrific condition overseas into the UK . " she also note : " dog and cat involve in bad breeding — whether they ' re use for breeding , or breed poorly themselves — don ' t have a fair chance in life . they ' re more likely to have health problem , and poor socialisation mean they can struggle with life as a pet . " I be really pleased that the Bill will finally close a loophole to address the issue of dog and cat with illegal mutilation such as cropped ear or dock tail and help to bring down demand for those feature . we have speak about the social medium impact . it be incumbent on we as parliamentarian and figure in public life to continue to drive public awareness about why those procedure be mutilation and the adverse impact they have on the animal and , frankly , society as a whole . I be really pleased that the Bill will make it much hard to exploit pet travel rule to traffic illegally puppy , kitten and ferret breed in horrific condition overseas into the UK . sadly , these activity can involve gang who be associate with serious organise crime , which I be personally keen on tackle during my time in Parliament . by bring in tough restriction , we can protect animal welfare and also cut a source of criminal income — an issue that , one way or another , I continue to raise in this House . while cat and dog be overwhelmingly the most popular pet in this country , it would be remiss of I , as a northern MP , not to reference the humble ferret , mention by my hon . friend the Members for Watford ( Matt Turmaine ) and for Northampton South ( Mike Reader ) . ferret be a northern icon . on that topic , our other northern icon , Oasis , be today reform for their first gig in 16 year . to conclude , have listen to my constituent on the vital importance of protect animal welfare , it be fair to say that both they and I be " mad fer ret " . I congratulate the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) on bring forward this Bill . a year on from the general election , it be nice to have one of those day when there be a sequence of Bills that we can all get behind and support and that should do great good for animal in this country and , hopefully , for some of the human as well . when I give my maiden speech , I highlight that my predecessor and I — in keep with convention , I say something nice about he — be both vegetarian and that animal welfare be a cause that be close to both of our heart . if we look at most of his time in office , we can see his extensive effort around animal welfare . my contribution have be far more limited , in part because of the number of constituency issue that I feel need to take priority during that time , but I be pleased to be here today to support this measure to improve the wellbeing of animal . I recall a write question my predecessor ask that slightly relate to today ' s debate , and it be in relation to the importation and exportation of reindeer from the United Kingdom . thank to that question , we be now aware that in 2020 and in 2021 , there be two import of reindeer and one export of reindeer . presumably , Santa ' s sleigh have separate licensing arrangement in the United Kingdom . import control have a significant role to play in my constituency . Crawley constituency be home to Gatwick airport , and its animal reception centre give people the important ability to relocate with their pet and also to bring more exotic animal into the United Kingdom . local authority also have a significant role to play in these process . during my time as a councillor , I see a number of request for permit for exotic animal , result in somewhat confusing conversation about why someone really need a full - sized crocodile in the middle of a housing estate . that licence be not approve . the hon . member for Winchester be to be commend for bring forward this Bill , and the House be privileged to benefit from his extensive professional experience in understand the important role that the Bill will play in prevent animal abuse and , hopefully , enhance wide animal welfare . we be a nation of animal lover , and we should feel proud that the legislative framework in this country be already world - leading . despite all the measure we have in place , I think member would agree , give the range of correspondence we get from our constituent , that there be probably more separate campaign on animal welfare than on any other policy area — that have certainly be my experience . it be important that we do not rest on our laurel . we must accept that the job be not do and that , as technology move thing forward , additional measure will need to be put in place to improve animal wellbeing . the issue of social medium and animal abuse online have be raise in the debate , and the hon . member for Winchester outline the role that influencer have to play . in addition , there be far too many group online that be dedicate to animal abuse . constituent of mine have attempt to shut down such group , but rather than be support by social medium company in try to address the problem , they have instead find themselves report by the perpetrator of the abuse and have face have their own account shut down and be leave without the support they need to bring the network of abuse to an end . the bad example of that type of animal abuse that I be aware of be bring up with I in a constituency surgery , and they relate to the torture of baby monkey , which be choose because when they be put in a baby grow , people can convince themselves that they be a baby . although that be clearly illegal already , the current requirement on social medium company to act be insufficient . I will not burden the House by inform hon . member of the thing that I now know about what happen to those monkey ; all I can say be that after my constituent leave , I spend some minute deal with the tear about what have happen to those monkey . we must do well around this , and I very much hope that move forward we be able to do so . I enthusiastically support the Bill , but we can not rest on our laurel . Meta must be make to answer for not act to bring an end to animal abuse on its network and for its active profiting from the advertising that appear on those network . advertiser must be make aware that part of what they be pay for when they advertise on Facebook be the maintenance of animal abuse network . I hope advertiser think more carefully about that in the future . I be proud to speak in this debate as the Member of Parliament for Portsmouth North — a seat I do not hold this time last year , but proudly hold today , although technically not for a year until 4 . 30 tomorrow morning . I want to speak today in strong support of the Bill . it be a vital step forward in our duty to protect animal from cruelty and exploitation . I thank the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) for introduce the Bill and for his service as a vet . I know the city of Winchester well , as I do my teaching degree at King Alfred ' s College . like my hon . friend the Member for Northampton South ( Mike Reader ) , Winchester will always have a special place in my heart , particularly Jesters , a pub I work in for many year , although it do not exist any more . Portsmouth be a city that care . many of my constituent have share their heartbreak at hearing of how young animal be bring into the UK sometimes under age , unwell and traumatise , just to be sell for profit . the Bill address that . it ban the importation of puppy and kitten under the age of six month . it stop the transportation of heavily pregnant animal and prohibit the import of animal that have undergo unnecessary mutilation such as ear crop or declaw ; those practice be outlaw in the UK but be still far too common abroad . like my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) , I believe that social media platform and influencer should do more to stop that . these reform be not only overdue ; they be essential . in Portsmouth , we be fortunate to have a number of deeply committed local charity that deal with the consequence of these inhumane practice . I would like to pay tribute to some of those charity . those at Cats Protection ' s Portsmouth branch work tirelessly to rescue , rehabilitate and rehome abandon or abuse cat across the city . its volunteer provide vital neutering and microchippe service , which help to reduce the stray population and improve feline welfare . they frequently take in cat that have come from unsuitable background , some of which be link to international trafficking or illegal sale . I also want to recognise Portsmouth Cats lose , find and Rehomed , which be lead by the inspirational Penny Parker . since 2013 , the group have reunite countless lose cat with their family , offer shelter to stray and provide veterinary care to those in desperate need . its small but mighty rescue cabin , Penny ' s place , be a beacon of hope for animal who might otherwise just have be leave to suffer . I also applaud Portsmouth Tortoise Rescue in Cosham . although it do not support cat , dog or ferret , it have recently receive national recognition for its outstanding work in exotic animal welfare , and Bernice Buckingham and her team of trustee and volunteer do an excellent job . their educational programme and specialist care have make Portsmouth Tortoise Rescue a trust name not only in Portsmouth but across the south . finally , Phoenix Rehoming have win award , include animal rescue of the year 2024 and most dedicated pet rehome service 2024 , and I wish the team luck with their nomination for animal charity team of the year 2025 . Phoenix Rehoming have a strong footprint in Portsmouth . it work with foster family and community to rescue and rehome dog , many of whom have be illegally import or abandon after be smuggle as part of this illicit trade . these organisation be do heroic work , but they should not have to shoulder the burden of weak regulation and criminal cruelty . by tighten important law , this Bill reduce the risk of trafficked animal enter the UK and ensure a great oversight , through veterinary check , microchipping and enforcement power . it also protect family in Portsmouth , who often fork out quite a lot of money for these pet and then find they have be sell sick animal , with fake paper , and be leave not only heartbroken but face thousand of pound in vet bill . the legislation be not just about animal welfare , but community resilience . it give our local charity a fighting chance , pet owner peace of mind and , most importantly , vulnerable animal the protection they deserve . I represent a city that believe in fairness , compassion and responsibility , so I be proud to support the Bill on behalf of the people of Portsmouth North . let we put an end to cruelty at our border and build a country that treat all live being with dignity . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) on introduce this private Member ' s Bill . as he be a veterinary surgeon , I know that this topic be close to his heart , as it be close to the heart of many hon . member . the hon . member for Northampton South ( Mike Reader ) speak with passion and pay tribute to Selaine Saxby , the former Member for North Devon who bring this Bill forward in the last Parliament , and I thank he for that tribute . the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) quote Mahatma Gandhi to great effect . the hon . member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) rightly point out that the Bill extend to Scotland , and that section 1 to 4 apply to Northern Ireland . the hon . member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) remind we how important animal welfare be to all our constituent , and the hon . member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) remind we that while our animal welfare law in Britain be world lead , we can always do well . finally , the hon . member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) pay tribute to those many charity in her constituency that dedicate themselves to improve animal welfare . Britain be a nation of animal lover , and the Conservatives be proud of our record in Government of improve animal welfare . in the last Parliament , we ban the keeping of primate as pet , introduce pet abduction as a specific criminal offence , increase the penalty for animal cruelty , ban the export of livestock for slaughter or fattening , and recognise animal sentience in law , through the Animal Welfare ( Sentience ) Act 2022 . the establishment of the Animal Sentience Committee ensure that all legislation pass by this House consider the principle of animal sentience . in 2020 , we introduce Lucy ' s law , which ban the third - party sale of puppy and kitten . these regulation help to protect animal from be keep in shockingly poor condition , separate from their mother at a young age and deprive of human or animal interaction for most of their life . the animal welfare Bill before we today be another example of do the right thing to protect those pet that we all love . many charity have be tirelessly campaign for this legislation for many year , include the British Veterinary Association , the Dogs Trust , the RSPCA , four Paws , Cats Protection , Blue Cross , Battersea Dogs and Cats Home and the Conservative Animal Welfare Foundation . the Bill aim to close exist loophole that be use far too often by dishonest breeder and smuggler to disguise commercial import of cat and dog as non - commercial movement , in a bid to avoid compliance with exist welfare standard . I welcome raise the minimum age at which cat and dog can be import to six month . that will curtail the ability of unscrupulous puppy smuggler to bring those puppy into the UK . the Bill also far restrict the import of heavily pregnant animal . the Dogs Trust have see a record 600 % increase in the number of heavily pregnant bitch intercept at the border since 2021 . in prepare for this debate , I have read about the most appalling case of pregnant animal be transport in cramp condition to give birth , with little food or water . this barbaric practice can permanently damage the health of both the mother and the puppy or kitten . similarly , we support the decision to cap the number of animal transport non - commercially at five per vehicle , rather than five per person as at present . that will close another loophole exploit by smuggler that allow they to transport several dozen animal in one trip , claim ownership of five per person . I be equally glad to see this legislation ban the import of dog and cat with non - exempt mutilation into Great Britain . accord to animal welfare charity such as the RSPCA , incident of ear cropping have skyrocket twentyfold in the last decade . we on the conservative Benches be commit to end that horrible practice . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) , who , like the hon . member for Winchester , be a veterinary surgeon and a passionate advocate of that reform . of course , mutilation be not limit to dog , and this legislation will also outlaw the declawing of cat . that be another horrible procedure that have no medical basis , and we support that measure . this be a good Bill . its measure be well consider , back by expert and charity and design to implement positive change to protect our beloved pet . I be pleased to confirm on behalf of the opposition that we support this Bill , and I sincerely hope it will gain the support it deserve from the whole of the House . I congratulate the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) on champion this Bill and guide its passage through the House . I have welcome the expertise he have lend to this debate , as well as his information and the way in which he use it in Committee . I be really fascinated to learn about the " cut the Crop " campaign , and I be keen to hear a bit more about how we can support that . I thank all member who have contribute to constructive and positive debate during each of the Bill ' s stage . I have to say that the constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Northampton South ( Mike Reader ) must be delighted that he do not pursue his career on the forecourt . he mention work of the Animal Welfare Society and his passionate membership of it . he also remind we all of the importance of doorstep dog and — one of my favourite — dog at polling station , which always seem to appear whenever the election day be . I thank he for his support and join he in support four Paws , Battersea and the Countryside Alliance . my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Sarah Russell ) mention dog - on - dog offence . those be offence under section 3 of the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991 , and we be work with the Crown Prosecution Service to update its guidance to make that clear . we be also work with stakeholder to encourage responsible dog ownership and reduce dog attack . as my hon . Friend quite rightly point out , this be about a minority of dog owner , but it be extremely distressing for anybody involve . my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) mention stray dog and the difficulty they have in gain trust , which be so true , as well as the damage that cruelty to animal can do throughout a pet ' s life . he also mention the importance of social medium and how we can ensure that all of we in this House be send the right message that we think the practice of mutilating animal be unacceptable . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) for his support and for raise the importance of end smuggling . Smuggling be the wrong thing to do for the welfare of animal and for our biosecurity , and that be a really important point . he also raise how we need to bring down the demand for mutilate dog , and I think we can do more across the whole House on that issue . of course , I agree with he that ferret be a northern icon . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) for his support . he be right that Santa ' s sleigh have a separate licensing system , so there be no difficulty in reindeer pass between any border on the night of 24 December . I recognise his support for the welfare of animal , and we must do well . I will take away his important concern about social medium advertising . I join my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) in thank — I hope I get all of they — Cats Protection Portsmouth , Portsmouth Lost , find and rehome , Penny ' s Place , Phoenix Rehoming , and Bernice Buckingham at Portsmouth Tortoise Rescue for all the work they do . [ interruption . ] I be so close . I thank they for all the work they do across her constituency . as note by the hon . member for Winchester , it be nice to have the whole House unite on a matter of animal welfare — what a nice way to end the week ? the nation be also unite on animal welfare . few topic have as much engagement and support from constituent , as evidence by the frequent correspondence I receive in Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice and that I be sure all of we across the House receive . the public ' s passion for pet be very much reflect in the statistic . accord to the PDSA , pet ownership have increase in recent year with over half of adult own a pet . as the proud owner of my cat Serena , Meglatron and Lily , I welcome the Bill and be thrilled that the measure cover cat because they deserve equal protection as dog . I pay tribute to my daughter Isabel who be here this morning and the magic way she have with animal . she have a particular talent , when we have have young kitten , in help they grow up to be soft and gentle animal . in fact , our beloved Thomas use to go to bed with she like a small teddy to be cuddle at night - time . I would go in and see they sit watch television together — honestly , he be more like a dog than a cat . that only go to reinforce the point make that when animal be treat well when they be little , they grow up to be soft , gentle and loving animal . it be only right that import cat should have parity — I nearly say pawrity — of protection , as they do across our domestic animal welfare law . while we be talk about the wonderful thing we have across our constituency , I want to mention Jenny ' s Cat House . Jenny take in load of animal that be rescue and lose and find literally into her house — it have become a charity now . she do incredible work as many do across the constituency . as we be talk about constituency issue , a sad thing happen in Northampton a few week ago . there be an arson attack in Dunelm , and that spread to Pets at home in the St James retail park . unfortunately , that fire rip through the vet , the dog groomer and the store . will the Minister join I in thank all the volunteer , vet , groomer and the fire service who put their life at risk to save so many pet — dog , cat and other — as that fire take hold ? I of course join my hon . friend in thank everyone involve . it be horrific to think that somebody would wish to attack a veterinary building where they know animal receive treatment and where they live . I hope that whoever have do that will be quickly and firmly bring to justice . as the number of pet owner have increase , there be a number of people travel with their pet . in 2024 , 368 , 000 dog , cat and ferret be move non - commercially into Great Britain . while most of those be genuine movement , the rise in non - commercial movement also account for the uptick in unscrupulous trader that abuse our pet travel rule to illegally smuggle puppy and kitten into the country . due to its illicit nature , we can not know the true number of pet illegally smuggle into Great Britain . what we do know , however , be the devastating effect it can have on the health and welfare of the animal that suffer as a result . I be delighted to reiterate the Government ' s support for the Bill . these measure represent a crucial step forward in our collective effort to tackle the pet smuggling trade . as we set out in our manifesto , this Government be commit to end puppy smuggling , and the measure in the Bill will close loophole in our pet travel rule that smuggler exploit . the Bill will tighten these rule by reduce the number of pet that can travel in a single non - commercial movement , and require the movement of a pet to be explicitly link to that of its owner . that will fundamentally disrupt the tactic we know illegal trader employ to avoid more stringent check and oversight . I be reassure that the Bill give the Government the power to reduce those limit far should there be evidence that our pet travel rule continue to be abuse . as the hon . member for Winchester rightly highlight , the Bill also introduce power for the Government to tackle low - welfare import through secondary legislation . the Government must first use these regulation - make power to introduce three impactful restriction — restriction raise the minimum age at which dog and cat can be move into Great Britain to six month ; ban the import of heavily pregnant dog and cat ; and ban the import of dog and cat that have be mutilate . we want few low - welfare operation supply pet to the GB market and , fundamentally , we want few animal to suffer . I know that colleague from across the House be keen to see these regulation make it on to the statute book as soon as possible . this Government be commit to introduce the prohibition in the Bill as soon as practicable . deliver these measure through secondary legislation will allow the Government to work closely with stakeholder to understand where appropriate exemption from the measure may be need . these will need to be carefully consider to ensure that we do not inadvertently create any loophole that could be abuse . of course , the enforcement of the measure will be crucial to their success . local authority and the Animal and Plant Health Agency will continue to be responsible for enforce pet travel and commercial import requirement . we will work closely with enforcement body to ensure that they have the right tool and guidance to enforce these measure effectively . I welcome the Bill ' s new power to make regulation , which will provide authority with a clear process and enforcement power when present with a non - compliant pet . regulation will allow for the cost of detention to be meet and , if necessary , for the animal to be rehome . they will bolster the enforcement tool available to agency , empower they to take appropriate action if the new rule be not follow , while ensure that we protect the welfare of pet that be import illegally . in Committee , the Government support several amendment to the Bill , which provide draft clarification and the necessary flexibility for genuine owner who will impact by the new rule due to protect characteristic or circumstance beyond their control . I be pleased to see those amendment pass , and I be confident that they will strengthen the Bill . the Government support amendment to narrow the Bill ' s power to make criminal offence . those amendment will ensure that any criminal offence create use this power be foreseeable , have be set out in the Bill , and will receive the appropriate scrutiny from Parliament . the offence specify in the Bill have be inform by engagement with enforcement body to ensure that they be fit for purpose . as touch on by the hon . member for Winchester , the Bill receive a clarification draft change in Committee . this change make it clear that the exist definition of " pet animal " in our pet travel regulation be not affect by the Bill . ultimately , it ensure that the status quo be maintain , and the effective operation of our pet travel regime . the Bill be also amend to allow an appropriate authority to grant an exemption from the tight non - commercial pet travel rule , as amend in the Bill , in exceptional or compelling circumstance . I reassure hon . member that this mechanism will be tightly control . the Government be commit to ensure that the Bill will not result in loophole that could be exploit by smuggler . the mechanism will give the Government flexibility to deal with unanticipated event that may impact the ability of genuine pet owner to follow the more stringent pet travel rule introduce by the Bill — for example , in the case of force majeure , such as a natural disaster that ground plane or a medical emergency that prevent owner from travel within five day of their pet . furthermore , the amendment will ensure that the new measure introduce by the Bill do not adversely impact protect group , such as assistant dog user , who may wish to travel together in group large than five . this have be carefully consider by the Government in accordance with our public sector equality duty under the Equality Act 2010 . importantly , the amendment do not provide blanket exemption from the rule ; instead , each case will be consider individually . the Government will work with the Animal and Plant Health Agency to ensure that there be a clear process to follow , and that exemption be grant only in truly exceptional or compelling circumstance . finally , the Government also support an amendment that remove the power to make further consequential amendment arise from the Bill ' s change to the pet travel rule and correspond import rule . since the Bill be introduce , we have far assess the change to legislation that might be necessary as a result of the Bill , and we be confident that no further amendment be require . we be keen to take no more power than be necessary . the amendment have not be consider lightly , and I be in no doubt that they improve the deliverability and ability to enforce this Bill . several mp have mention our work to reset relation with the EU . as announce at the UK - EU leader ’ summit on 19 May 2025 , the UK and EU have agree to work towards have a common sanitary and phytosanitary area , which would make take pet to the EU on holiday easy and cheap . it be important that we get the right agreement for the UK , so we be not put any arbitrary deadline on negotiation . we will provide more information on pet passport in due course ; in the meantime , owner will still need an animal health certificate for their dog , cat or ferret if they be travel from Great Britain to an EU country . while I be unable to comment on live negotiation , I reassure hon . member that this Government will continue to support this Bill while negotiate an SPS agreement with the EU . as set out in the Government ' s manifesto , we be commit to end puppy smuggling and deliver a well future for animal . I be pleased to say that this Bill do just that . its key measure deliver crucial recommendation by the Select Committee on Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and tackle multiple concern that have be raise by stakeholder regard loophole in our pet travel rule . I commend the hon . member for Winchester on take this important Bill through the House , and I very much look forward to see it on the statute book . I thank all member who have be involve with this Bill at all its stage , include in Committee , and for forward I a lot of correspondence from their constituent about it . I also thank the Government and the Minister for their support for this Bill , and the civil servant and the Clerks of the House for the support they give my office in get this do . about 10 year ago , I be on the British Veterinary Association ' s policy committee , and we be push to tackle puppy smuggling . we be work with other organisation , such as the RSPCA , the Dogs Trust , Cats Protection , four paw and Battersea Dogs and Cats Home . today be a great day for all those organisation , which have want this to happen for so long . I thank Lord Trees , who be kindly sponsor this Bill through the upper House . he be my dean at Liverpool vet school , and in my third year , he fail my parasitology viva , which mean I have to spend a summer revise and come back for resit instead of have fun . give that this Bill will help prevent parasitological disease from come into the UK , I hope he might consider give I a retrospective distinction . I know that the Bill will be in good hand in the upper House . I also thank my team . a private member ' s Bill be a lot of work , especially for a new team . I notice a couple of last - minute change to my speech — I think I can guess who make some of they . I thank my team , include my chief of staff , Tom Wood , and his cat Luma , who be clearly the most intelligent cat in the world . I also thank Emily Kitchen and her cat Tango — the most clumsy cat in the world — and Sophie Hammond , my parliamentary assistant , who be on maternity leave . do the hon . Member agree that it be most appropriate that Madam Deputy Speaker , who be Member of Parliament for Bradford , be in the Chair for this Bill ' s Third reading ? David Hockney , one of Bradford ' s most famous son , be a wonderful painter of dog . I be the proud owner of two lovely dog . I look forward to see those painting . I thank Sophie Hammond for all the work she do on this Bill in its early stage , and Hayley Puddefoot , who have take over from she . I be so happy today , because no long will dog and cat be take away from their parent at a hugely young age and put in the back of a van , perhaps have be sedate or mutilate , and perhaps while sick , and where they may become overheated . that will come to an end now , which be a great step forward for animal welfare . finally , I thank all the people of Winchester who elect I to serve as their MP a year ago today . I be so pleased to be able to bring forward a piece of legislation that show people that what happen in Parliament have a real impact out in the real world . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) ( amendment ) Bill Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . it be a pleasure to reach this milestone in the Bill ' s journey through the House of Commons . as we know , livestock worrying have devastating consequence for both animal and farmer . in Committee , I and other Committee member share the experience that have resonate with we of farmer have suffer attack to their livestock . the damage of a livestock attack can be horrific , cause brutal injury that be tragically often fatal . there be instance of stress cause pregnant livestock to miscarry , and separation of mother and their young lead to hypothermia or starvation . I have see picture from farmer in my constituency of the aftermath of attack that have mutilate their calf beyond any hope of keep they alive . the consequence of an attack , no matter the scale , be profound , and attack be sadly all too common . the datum from the recent National Sheep Association survey speak for itself : 96 % of respondent have experience incident in the last 12 month , and 98 % agree that there be an urgent need for additional police power . the response highlight that livestock worry remain a huge problem for the sector and show just how important it be to deliver the Bill . as someone who grow up on a sheep farm , a vet who have treat injury cause by dog that be out of control , and someone who continue to work with farmer quite closely in the Meon valley , I can not emphasise enough how necessary this legislation be . the problem be devastating for animal , but also cause farmer to take a huge economic hit . it be horrendously stressful for everyone involve , and it be not a niche problem — it happen all the time . I thank the hon . member for introduce this legislation . I thank the hon . member for his insight as a vet , and for emphasise what so many people across the House know : these change be vital . may I also say how grateful I be to the hon . member who take the time to serve on the Bill Committee ? I be truly grateful for their support and contribution , and for the conversation I have have with many of they about the Bill . as we hear in Committee , the Bill will modernise the Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) Act 1953 , ensure that it reflect the need of modern - day farming . the Bill strengthen police power , so that they can do their job more effectively . specifically , it give the police power of entry , and allow they to seize and detain dog and to collect evidence — change that farmer in my constituency have specifically tell I be necessary . the Bill will also increase the penalty — and we hope , in turn , the deterrent against livestock worry . the fine be currently cap at a maximum of £ 1 , 000 ; that will go up to an unlimited amount , to reflect the severity of livestock worry from an animal welfare standpoint , as well as the economic toll an attack can have on farming . farming have diversify , and therefore the scope of livestock require protection have increase . I be delighted that camelid such as alpaca and llamas will now be protect under the Bill . anyone who have drive down country road , such as those in my constituency of Chester South and Eddisbury , will know that farmer move livestock . in recognition of that , the Bill include road and path as location where an offence may take place ; that will give farmer great reassurance when move livestock . as I say in Committee , the legislation put animal welfare and farmer right at its heart . today mark exactly one year since the general election . I be deeply proud and grateful that in my first year as the Member for Chester South and Eddisbury , I have be able to introduce a Bill in my name that will make a genuine difference both for animal welfare and farmer . this be precisely why I stand for election , and it be testament to the strength of this Parliament that an Opposition back Bencher can help deliver meaningful change in the law that will have a real and lasting impact . we should all be able to enjoy the countryside , and there be no fine countryside than in Chester South and Eddisbury . however , that enjoyment come with a responsibility to preserve and protect it , and to support those who care for it every day : our farming community . the Bill give we the opportunity to act to protect our countryside , support our farmer and strengthen animal welfare . I hope that member from all side of the House will join I in back it , just as they do in Committee . it be a pleasure to speak on another animal welfare Bill today . as the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) say , it be fantastic to see this legislation bring in by a party that be not in government , with cross - party support . I declare that I be a member of the National Farmers Union food and farming fellowship . I have be fortunate to visit a number of farm across the UK to hear at first hand from farmer from a range of speciality . I can say that the Bill will be fully support across that community , particularly in Northamptonshire . the NFU do great work to represent our fantastic farmer , a number of whom I meet yesterday at a food event in Northampton as we launch the Northamptonshire good food plan . they speak of the challenge , particularly of work across border with the police , because their farm often do not fit within normal police boundary , and say they want more government support for the rural economy . the Bill go some way to help to achieve that . I be really pleased to see the expansion of the definition in the Bill , and I commend the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury and the Bill Committee for ensure that we get that right . in particular , the inclusion of alpacas and llamas be really positive , as we be see more and more of they rear in Northamptonshire . it will be positive to continue to review that as farmer diversify into new way of maintain food supply and the environment and ensure the long - term sustainability of farming . bill such as this should continue to be adapt and evolve through successive government . I meet a farming colleague relatively recently , who tell I about a mauling incident that happen on his land . it be shocking to hear about the direct impact on he and his staff who discover it , and the fact that the police struggle to take action because of the lack of power to undertake thing such as forensic . it be positive that the Bill be increase the relevant power , particularly on the capture of dna from dog , to ensure that perpetrator can be bring to justice . it be a grim thing that continue to happen year on year , and we must take positive step to change it . the Bill be also very well time . in Northamptonshire , the new police , fire and crime commissioner , Danielle Stone , have recognise that rural crime have be neglect in recent year . she have launch a rural crime survey , and have a number of roundtable and panel with farmer across the county . we now see farming and the protection of rural community front and centre in her police action plan . northamptonshire be home to the large town in the UK , Northampton , but also acre and acre of beautiful countryside , which be use for both arable farming and rear herd and grow crop . it be great timing to see the Bill come through before the summer . not just my police , fire and crime commissioner but police commissioner across England will recognise and support the Bill as a positive step forward . when I read the Bill and listen to some of the observation in Committee , I find the expansion of the provision to road and path quite interesting . for the record , my uncle be the former president of the Ramblers ' Association , and he repeatedly remind I of the right to roam campaign whenever I see he at family do . it be positive that the Bill expand the definition to include road and path , because it set clear requirement when someone access land — particularly in somewhere like Northamptonshire , where so many public footpath run through farmland — to protect farmer and set clear boundary for those walk their dog or undertake more nefarious activity . it be also positive to see the recovery of cost in the Bill . that be a big step forward that will deter people and serve as a reminder to many people who may be impact by the Bill . overall , the Bill take a really responsible and balanced approach , and I commend the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury on her work . as we have hear today from the many dog owner in the Chamber , dog owner be generally responsible , but when thing go wrong and someone do not take that responsibility seriously , there must be measure in place for the police to step in and farmer to be protect , so I be really pleased to see this Bill . it do not take a heavy - handed approach , as a couple of constituent have write to I about . it strike the right balance , and I fully commend it and thank the hon . member for bring it forward . I thank the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) for bring forward this Bill , which be immensely popular with local farmer . I have meet with the NFU and its membership repeatedly over month , if not most of the last year , and it be always one of the first thing they mention to I . I commend she for her sterling work and for the collegiate way in which she always conduct herself , include in this matter . it be fantastic that we be extend protection to alpaca and llamas . no one want to see attack or worrying , and include both those definition be really important and strengthen the law appropriately . I be incredibly impressed that the Bill cover path and road . the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury think her constituency be the most beautiful in the country but , of course , it be not even the most beautiful in Cheshire , because mine be well . one of the really beautiful thing I do recently be go to Goostrey Rose Festival last weekend . we have new path in Goostrey and they be use incredibly regularly by dog walker , but they be on farm boundary . this legislation be so important for cover path like those . I have be on a farm with a family in the aftermath of a dog attack , and it be terrible . I be not here to demonise dog owner — we have so many considerate , sensible , countryside - love dog owner in my constituency — and I know the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury be not either . we be here to make sure that the overwhelming majority of people be leave in peace to go about their everyday life , in both the farming community and the dog - own community — they be often one and the same — and to make sure that rural crime be properly prosecute . GPS theft be another major component of rural crime in my area . our local police and crime commissioner , Dan Price , have be do work on this , and the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury have be involve in it . it would be great to get an update from the Minister on that . I want to take a moment to thank the NFU , which have lobby I extensively on this issue . I be on its food and farming fellowship and have learn a great deal from it . I also thank the farmer in my constituency for continue to feed we and for look after the countryside so well . I rise to support the Bill , and I commend the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) for bring it to Parliament . I want to make some brief remark about what be sometimes perceive as a tension between those who wish to responsibly enjoy the countryside , and both the economic toll and the harm do to livestock by livestock worry . since be elect to this place , I have be a strong champion for expand responsible access to the countryside across England and Wales — my hon . friend the Member for Northampton South ( Mike Reader ) mention the right to Roam campaign . I commend the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury , because this Bill shine a light on the fact that most of we who wish to go into the great outdoors and enjoy our wonderful countryside , whether that be in Cheshire or on the wonderful west Pennine moor in my Bolton West constituency , do so responsibly , but those who do not ensure that their dog conduct themselves in a considerate manner will feel the wrath of these measure . I particularly welcome that , because there be a balance to be strike between farmer and those who look after livestock in the countryside , and those who want to enjoy our great outdoors . with that in mind , I want to touch on a couple of point . on extend the provision to include camelid , there be a number of alpaca and llama at farm in my constituency , include Smithills open farm . member may think they look rather incongruous on the great west Pennine moor , but I assure they that they be incredibly popular , both in term of the opportunity to walk they around the moor and with school visit . I want to touch on a couple of point that the Minister may pick up on , relate to the opportunity that present themselves , outside the criminal law , to push for great responsible enjoyment of our countryside , particularly in respect of increase investment in promote awareness of the countryside code . I will read out some of the provision in the code , to make people aware . I think they be principle that everyone in this place can rally around : " do not feed livestock , horse or wild animal … do not cause damage or disturbance … leave no trace … always keep dog under control and in sight … dog poo — bag it and bin it … take your litter home " and , most importantly , be courteous : " be nice … share the space " with other . that should be the golden thread that run through all our time spend in the countryside . it be worth I put on the record that the UK rank the low of 14 european nation with regard to nature connectedness and , out 15 european nation survey , the UK be 11th in term of physical activity . so there be great work to be do to provide access to nature , but also on enjoy it and break down some of the barrier to opportunity . nevertheless , I commend the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury for bring forward the Bill . I very much appreciate the concern she have raise around livestock worry ; she have be a champion for that cause ever since she get elect to this place . I commend the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) for praise her daughter in the Chamber . it be very important to praise child . my Aunty Mary , who move from Newcastle in the blitz to become a schoolteacher just north of here in London , would always emphasise to I how important it be to give child confidence in their ability and their quality . we be talk early about dog and David Hockney , so it would be remiss of I not to mention Elizabeth Blackadder , a very fine printmaker from Glasgow and one of the United Kingdom ' s most famous artist . she be a real pioneer in revive printmaking in Scotland . in Trongate , we have the Glasgow Print Studio . Project Ability currently have an exhibition of art by people who have disability and mental health issue . it be a wonderful exhibition . if any member be go to Glasgow , they should go to that exhibition , because it be absolutely wonderful . it be a beautiful exhibition . the Bill do not apply to Scotland because it be a criminal matter , and criminal matter be devolve to Scotland in the constitutional settlement , but this be an important issue in Scotland . there have be some discussion about the lack of prosecution for this sort of offence . it be important that these offence be prosecute , because farming be an important part of the british economy and the scottish economy . I know that well because , as a complete townie who get very uncomfortable if there be a lack of car and noise , I marry into a family of farmer . my wife ' s family be dairy farmer on the Solway firth , which look over into Cumbria where the Bill will apply and have very important impact , as sheep farming be very important in Cumbria . I do not think my lovely father - in - law Andrew be particularly impressed with my farming ability . help in the milk parlour do not go very well and apparently the fence I put up be not straight enough . he generally think I be incompetent in the farming area . I think now , after 23 year of marriage — it be come up to our wedding anniversary on 12 July — he think I be kind of all right as a husband and a father , but I have not check this week . my wife ' s aunt and uncle , Elma and Sam , be sheep farmer . Sheep farming be a very difficult way of make money . it be hard work — farming be hard , hard work , whatever kind it be . farmer have to get up very early to look after the animal ; they have to protect the animal and pay for the veterinary bill , and so on . it be a tough job . I do not think we should underestimate how important this Bill will be as a signal that this House support farmer and take into account their concern . these be hard job . farmer be steward of the countryside across Britain . obviously , Glasgow be the most beautiful place in the world , but I would not wish to get into a dispute about where the most beautiful part of Cheshire be , because Cheshire be beautiful . farmer be an important part of stewarde the countryside across our family of nation , which be so important to we , and this Bill be important for farmer . farmer be important for the british economy — not just the farm themselves , but our brilliant farmer , who help to supply restaurant and shop , create the great revival of british cooking and cuisine that we have see in our lifetime . so this Bill be very important , and I hope that the Scottish Government look at it carefully and perhaps review the lack of prosecution of these offence . now , I should say something of the Bill itself , because it be important . I have cover the important constitutional aspect of it — that it do not cover Scotland — but clause 2 be key . there be limited scope for the police to seize dog for prolonged period of time , even when they be cause danger . it be , I be afraid , regrettably common for dog that have be seize to carry out further attack pende the trial of their owner . give the police the ability to seize dog for long period of time will therefore prevent those repeat attack . I commend the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) for address that in clause 2 ; it be an important provision , and she be quite right to include it . as a recover lawyer , I have , at time , have an interest in the investigation of crime . of course , whatever the legal system , it be necessary to have sufficient evidence , broadly , to convince a judge or a jury to convict someone . rural crime be particularly difficult in that regard ; the reason be self - evident , when we think about it . as a complete townie , it have take I a bit of time to spot the self - evidence of it . my hon . friend consistently refer to himself as a complete townie — a description that I would apply to myself , too . of course , the fact that we reside in urban area do not in any way mean that we be unconcerned by the fortune of our fellow parliamentarian who represent agricultural area , or indeed their community , who play a vital role in sustain we . the importance of food be something I often speak about , for as much as we focus on whatever the lead industry be of the day , society fundamentally come down to the question of whether we can feed and house ourselves . Covid in particular drive forward the point that the agricultural system in this country be vital . my hon . friend ' s intervention typify his many thoughtful contribution ; he make an important point . I think all of we who live in city — townie , like I — have a great yearning for the countryside . in my constituency , we have Tollcross Park , which be a wonderful park ; I recommend that everyone visit it . there be a city farm in the park , which house llamas and alpaca , to which the provision of the Bill extend ; they be protect by it . I would not want to sully this debate with a political point , but I simply point out that the SNP council regularly threaten to close that farm . Tollcross also have some wonderful rose garden , which the council do not look after particularly well , which be a real disappointment to my constituent . they be right to be disappoint . turn back to the Bill , the investigation of crime in the countryside be difficult , as there be not lot of people about , there be no CCTV and there be very few witness , if any . clause 3 allow for the collection of forensic evidence , which will be very important in link the dog to the animal that have be attack and the owner , and in facilitate the prosecution of these serious crime and bring about justice . it be fair to say that my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) raise a very important issue . the improved power of entry and search in order to look for sample and take impression from a dog — teeth impression and so on , I assume — be very important too ; again , they make investigation of these crime easy . it be important that we investigate and prosecute the crime ; if we do not , the law will just sit on the statute book unenforce , ignore and otiose . if we do not have the enforcement mechanism , we be waste our time in the House , so the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury be right to include they in the Bill . we do not want to waste our time ; everyone in this House agree that crack down on these terrible crime be very important . I be particularly pleased that the Bill deal with road and path . have help my father - in - law on many occasion , utterly incompetently , with thing like move animal around — somewhat like my career in the petrochemical industry , when I put diesel in the unleaded car , it be not something I be cut out for — I know that animal can be attack and worry on road and path . it be also right that attack livestock be deal with differently from worry livestock . I have probably say enough about the Bill , but let I say finally that I be pleased that camelid be to be protect by it . Llamas and alpaca be beautiful animal . as I mention , we have they in the Tollcross city farm ; they be well worth a visit . the Bill recognise innovation in Britain ' s agricultural sector , as it look to move to new product . of course , alpaca and llama be not just important as animal , but a good source of very fine wool for clothe . anyone who have be to Peru will probably have be approach on a number of occasion to buy an alpaca jumper ; they have lovely soft wool . it be important that we extend these protection to that important innovation in the farming industry . I can not speak highly enough of the Bill , or of the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury for bring such an excellent , well - draft piece of legislation to the House . like everyone who have speak so far , I congratulate the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) . much like the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) , Crawley be an urban constituency . on the plus side , I suppose that mean I get to avoid the bunfight over who have the good rural constituency — we undoubtedly have the great urban constituency . we be not necessarily know for our farm in Crawley — we have fairly tight boundary around the town — but people be often surprised to find that we do have they , because the safeguard land between the urban area of the town and the airport be currently only usable as agricultural land . we be not allow to build anything else there . I need to take that up with Ministers in due course , in order to try to release it for much - need economic and housing space . do my hon . friend agree that it be vital to have farm in build - up setting in order to give a connection to people who perhaps do not have the good fortune of be able to get out into the countryside , to enable they to understand how crucial farming be to this country and also , frankly , so that they may enjoy livestock in a responsible manner ? I agree with my hon . friend . have any form of green space in close proximity be vital psychologically . we will be discuss the space industry soon , and research undertake by those in the space industry show the huge psychological boost that people get from be close to green space . it be worth bear in mind that farming be not necessarily the good representation of natural England . when we in this place talk about housing development , I worry because all too often people become obsess with the notion that England be suppose to be a land of roll green field . the reality be that this country be densely forest , and substantial amount of biodiversity have be remove to make viable area that be now open green field . in the Government ' s housing programme , we should look at such area as brownfield land , on the basis that they be not what natural England be suppose to look like . in many case , new housing development will have great level of biodiversity . none the less , integrate farming alongside other form of industry be an important part of develop well - rounded community . I be familiar with such farm , in part because when I be a member of West Sussex county council many year ago — not enough year ago , give my experience of be a county councillor — we buy one of those farm . it be view as a fantastic idea , on the basis that the land would in due course be develop into a runway and we would make an absolute killing out of it . I regret to say that even if the development consent order come through right now , it would still be farmland , and it be not the site of the propose runway . that be another of the county ' s investment that have not really play out as plan . the National Wealth Fund , which the Government be focus on — building , to be fair , on work do by the previous Administration — have a real focus on help local authority to make sensible investment . do my hon . friend agree that give the various saga that we have see — Thurrock and solar , for example , or interest rate swap by Hammersmith and Fulham back in the day — that be a very sensible objective for the National Wealth Fund ? order . the hon . member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) will , I be sure , be speak to the Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) ( amendment ) Bill . I be fight my way back to it , Madam Deputy Speaker . just to address my hon . friend ' s point , have be a local authority leader for quite some time , I understand the pressure on council to make such investment if their income be be reduce in other way . clearly , however , many lesson have have to be learn . I hope that the fund will provide opportunity to use public money far well . if member will please allow I to get back to the substance of the Bill , I will proceed with all due haste . my constituency be surround by field , and consequently the provision that affect those area also affect my constituent . we have livestock in the constituency , particularly in the nature centre in one of the town ' s main park . it have just be rebrande as Tilgate zoo , but for a long time it be the nature and rare breed centre , where I have spend many happy hour in various capacity . it be where I get marry ; that be a high point . it be where I be bite by a turkey at the age of two ; that be a low point . I be sure it all balance out in the long run . I be afraid we do not have any alpaca or llama , although I would love we to get some . we be suppose to be roll out different country exhibit as time go on . I be remind that alpaca and llama be no laugh matter . the Inca empire never develop the wheel ; the entire empire be build off the back of alpaca and llamas . as such , they be worthy of great respect . what we do have , however , be sheep and cow , but some pretty harrowing thing happen to the livestock at the nature centre . in one case , a sheep be set on fire while it be still alive . although the Bill do not directly deal with that , the mentality behind the disrespect of such animal be worthy of note . far more often , dog have be set on the animal , or at least people have not be in control of their dog . we eventually have to remove the sheep entirely from the publicly accessible area . in fact , we go a bit far than that , because the local authority own the park . we also have a problem around the main lake , where we keep find that cygnet and baby duckling be be maul by dog that have come off leash . we take the decision to implement a public space protection order , mandate all dog owner to keep their dog on lead in those area to try to reduce the risk to other animal . I will be honest and say that it be not well receive . we be re - consult on it now , but I suspect it probably still will not be desperately well receive . the big problem around these issue be that people love their dog , and they think their dog could never possibly do anything wrong . I be certain that they be right about that in the overwhelming majority of case , but there will always be situation where an owner will not be in control , something will happen and other pay the price — people be put at risk or we lose animal . despite have voluntary provision in these area , experience show that these be insufficient to the task of require people to keep their dog under control . the provision need to cover all the case ; they can not just deal with the odd exception . it be really important that the Bill put in place provision to enable the police to take appropriate action to monitor , investigate and resolve situation where livestock have be affect . but it be not just about put provision in place . we have a habit sometimes of produce regulation but not allocate resource , and if we do not allocate the resource , we do not actually produce any well outcome . a big concern of mine be that if we create law that we do not then enforce , we encourage lawlessness in the long run . we should have sufficient regulation that we be capable of enforce and be prepared to enforce in order to maintain the value and meaning of the law to our constituent . this issue be not just about animal welfare . while it be tragic when incident occur than affect livestock , it be a fundamentally a matter of economic as well — the point I make to my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East . this be an industry ; these be people ' s livelihood , and as we be well aware from debate in this place over the last year , they operate on extremely tight margin , and these people can not afford the kind of loss that this abuse can cause . it be important that there be system of regulation in place to enable the industry to operate effectively into the future , because this be not simply about what happen to the industry ; agriculture be a matter of national security for all of we . as an island , we have have to learn this lesson many time . as a country , we have always have to import some food from overseas , and there have always be trade . as far back as the neolithic age , we import a certain amount of herring from Scandinavia . we see very clearly in world war two the impact on society as a whole when U - boat be able to disrupt the trade system with the empire and convoy and sailor have to put their life at risk to ensure that people would survive . this country make effort at the time , with campaign encourage people to grown their own food , and effort have be make since to try to create a large - enough agricultural sector in the United Kingdom so that we will always be able to feed our population . the development of buffer stock system over the war ensure that market fluctuation do not drive people out of business , and they continue to operate on some level to this day . the impact on our national security be drive home to we during covid , when those who be work throughout the food distribution sector be designate as key worker . it be regrettable that we as a society have row back from realise that people in these logistical and retail role play a far more fundamental role in our day - to - day ability to survive than many of the role that we choose to promote in society . ultimately , we need law that be go to support those in this industry to thrive . in summary , I agree with the proposal in the Bill — and I have attempt to get through my speech at the fast possible pace to make that point . I call the shadow Minister . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) for introduce the Bill , which have enjoy wide support from member across the House . the hon . member for Northampton South ( Mike Reader ) remind we of the need to keep control of dog on path and country lane . the hon . member for Congleton ( Sarah Russell ) stress the importance of these improve protection for her farmer , as they be for farmer in Somerset . the hon . member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) emphasise the need for responsible access to the countryside , about which I agree . the hon . member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) tell we about the need for strengthen police power . the hon . member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) take we on a gentle country ramble in his speech , and tell we that his constituency be entirely urban and he know little of farming . let I tell he not to worry , because he be clearly eminently qualified to be labour ' s next Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs — he could scarcely know less or do bad than the current incumbent . I pay tribute to those group that have long champion this reform . they include the National Sheep Association , the RSPCA , the British Veterinary Association , the National Farmers Union and the all - party parliamentary group for animal welfare . as I have already mention once today , Britain be a nation of animal lover and the Conservatives be proud of our record in Government of far improve Britain ' s world - lead position on animal welfare . this Bill follow in that proud tradition , because livestock worry be a blight on our countryside and a blight on our farmer . in a recent survey by the National Sheep Association , 87 % of respondent say they have experience a dog attack on their livestock in the past 12 month . one in 20 of those respondent say that they have experience between 10 and 30 such attack , which be truly appalling . these attack cause distress and injury to livestock and , in the most extreme case , they can cause the death of animal . that be not only traumatic for farmer , but it can be expensive too . NFU mutual datum show that insurance claim for dog attack on farm animal exceed £ 1 . 8 million in 2023 . farmer have enough to worry about with this Government ' s new family farm tax , without the additional burden of attack on their livestock by dog . the Bill make several improvement to exist law . first , it introduce a vital distinction between livestock worry and attack . this change will help to strengthen enforcement where serious harm have occur . clause 2 expand police power to seize dog they reasonably expect to have be involve in such offence . this important amendment help to close exist legal loophole and ensure swift police action to prevent further harm . clause 3 empower police and veterinary professional to take sample or impression from wounded animal or suspect dog to aid criminal investigation . this change will make it significantly easy to gather evidence and bring charge . the National Farmers Union have rightly champion the measure , note that many livestock worrying incident go unreported due to a lack of confidence in enforcement . the possibility of use dna testing could be a game changer for successful prosecution , and I urge the Government to support further research and work with police force to implement the result . clause 4 allow officer with a warrant to search property for dog believe to be involve in an attack . this be a crucial power to ensure justice be serve and will help end the widespread perception among farmer that little can be do once an attack occur . another major improvement be the inclusion of road and public path within the legislation ' s scope . livestock be often move between field use country lane . under current rule , if an animal be attack outside a field , the burden unfairly fall on the farmer . this Bill correct that and rightly place responsibility on dog owner to always control their pet near livestock . the Bill broaden the definition of livestock to include camelid , such as alpaca and llamas , which be increasingly part of rural enterprise . I particularly welcome that clause , especially on behalf of establishment such as the Animal Farm Adventure Park in Berrow , in my constituency . the Bill introduce many essential enforcement power that will allow our police to crack down on worry , but we must not forget about prevention . responsible dog ownership be key . the previous Government ' s working group bring together police , stakeholder and welfare organisation to improve education on how to keep pet and livestock safe . in Wales , a 64 % drop in livestock worrying incident between 2023 and 2024 have be credit to outreach campaign , dog training course and effective rural crime team . we must continue to amplify educational message such as those in the country code . I call on the Government to make sure they continue that vital work and to look at how we might far encourage responsible dog ownership . my constituency have a large farming community , and I have see at first hand the impact of livestock worry on my constituent . I recently meet Austen Lockyer , who farm in my constituency . he tell I that he struggle when irresponsible owner allow their dog off lead on public footpath through his field , treat they like recreation ground and worry his sheep . I know the Bill will be a comfort to he and those like he and that we be act to shift the burden of responsibility to dog owner . I be pleased to have support the Bill since it be introduce and through Committee , and it be a pleasure to stand at the Dispatch Box and confirm that the opposition support the Bill in full . I urge colleague from all party to support the Bill and to bring an end to the scourge of livestock worry in rural community . it be a privilege to speak on Third Reading . I express my gratitude to the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) for take the Bill through the House . I really be not go to get party political on this day of unity when we be all in so much agreement . however , the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) , have prompt I to do so , and who be I to turn away such an invitation ? it be marvellous that he think the Bill be such a good idea and that he be fully supportive of it . I say gently to he that his party have 14 year in which to support Bills like this and the Animal Welfare ( Import of Dogs , Cats and Ferrets ) Bill that we debate early . it be quite interesting to hear he try to defend the previous Government ' s record at DEFRA — we all know that every single river , lake and sea be fill with sewage . I be more than happy to discuss the record of the previous Government . I will return to my tone of unity . I thank everyone who contribute to get the Bill to Third Reading and everyone who be involve in Committee . I have be brief on how much support the Bill be show in Committee , so I thank all member from across the House for their work in that . I thank the hon . member for Northampton South ( Mike Reader ) for mention his membership of the NFU food and farming fellowship and the support of the NFU . I completely agree with he on the difference that capture dog ' dna will make to enforcement . it be important that that be adopt and develop . I be tempt back into get political again : I agree with my hon . friend that rural crime be neglect for 14 year under the previous Government , but we be start to take it more seriously . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Sarah Russell ) for engage frequently with the NFU and represent its view , as well as those of farmer across her constituency . I agree with she that it be important that the Bill cover path and road as well . I will not get involve in the debate on which be the most beautiful constituency . how could I , Madam Deputy Speaker , when you and I know that Yorkshire be God ' s own country ? I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) for talk about responsible access to the countryside . when we enjoy the beauty of nature , it be crucial that we all obey the countryside code . I hope that all member promote the code across their constituency . my hon . Friend also mention the bagging and binning of dog poo . that remind I of when I attend the Filey folk festival and one of the most amusing song I have hear for a long time , which be about the dog poo tree . the song be dedicate to all those people who go on a walk , collect their dog ' s poo in a dog poo bag , and then hang the bag on the dog poo tree at the end of the walk . it remind we all to not just bag it , but take it away with we . on that point , I go to the Hardingstone village fair this weekend — I have a pop - up surgery . I want to thank the constituent who come to tell I about the dog poo epidemic in Hardingstone . she ask , " what ' s the Government go to do to help ? " I confirm that we will make sure that council have the power to address this issue , and that I will raise it with West Northamptonshire council to make sure that it take action . it be clearly impact resident in the village of Hardingstone . I completely agree that it be incredibly unpleasant . as always , it be only a minority of people who fail to take away their dog ' s poo . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) for the tip on visit the beautiful print art in Glasgow . I hope that his father - in - law be impress by his support for this Bill , if not by his ability as a farmer . I congratulate my hon . friend on his 23rd wedding anniversary on 12 July . my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) talk about the psychological boost that we get when we be near nature . he be completely right . it be such a positive feeling to be out in the wild . I always talk to my local Yorkshire wildlife group about the importance of " tangle " ; where some people see mess , other see biodiversity and nature . we get the most nature where there be a tangle of different plant grow ; we get very little on a mowed lawn . we get nature where we see weed , different habitat , and different area for specie to grow and develop . I be convinced that this be a reason not to do as much gardening ; we be then support biodiversity and the need for tangle . member have also mention the importance of plant more forest and talk about how we can raise the amount of biodiversity on our new estate , all of which I completely agree with . the Minister mention forest . I want to congratulate Trees for Congleton , which have just plant its 30 , 000th tree in Congleton . it set out a few year ago to plant one tree for every citizen in the town , and it have achieve that . I think that be quite remarkable . I be delighted to join my hon . friend in congratulate Trees for Congleton . thirty thousand tree be an incredible achievement , and let we hope it keep go . the number of livestock keep in the UK have nearly double since the Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) Act 1953 be pass , and there have be a large increase in dog ownership . the National Sheep Association ' s 2025 survey indicate that 96 % of respondent have experience between one and 10 incident of sheep worry in the last 12 month . that highlight the urgent need to modernise the legislation in order to address this issue . on average , respondent report four sheep death per year due to sheep worry by dog — an increase on previous year — and one respondent report 44 sheep kill in a single attack . these figure do not account for miscarriage of lamb , or for the other secondary impact of livestock worry . the behaviour of dog that chase , attack or cause distress to livestock can have devastating outcome and result in injury or death , which can have a detrimental impact on farmer . livestock worry can also have wide implication , such as lamb be aborted and flock of bird be smother . that demonstrate how harmful such incident can be . it be clear that we need strong measure to attack livestock worrying and the devastating effect on farmer and livestock , and this Bill will deliver these measure . the Government recognise the distress that livestock worrying can cause animal and their keeper . all report crime must be take seriously , investigate and , where appropriate , take through the court , so that perpetrator receive the appropriate penalty . this Bill amend the Dogs ( Protection of Livestock ) Act 1953 , which underpin livestock worry offence and enforcement , and I will summarise the three main area that the Bill will address before go into more detail on the measure . the Bill will primarily focus on three area . it will modernise the definition and scope of the livestock worry offence by extend the location where an offence may take place to include road and path , and it will expand the species scope to include camelid , which be commonly find . it will strengthen police power , include power of entry , the seizure and detention of dog , and the collection of evidence , to improve enforcement , and as a deterrent , it will increase the maximum penalty from a fine of £ 1 , 000 to an unlimited fine . those three key area will strengthen the legislation and deterrence around livestock worrying and attack on livestock . the Bill will broaden the location where an offence may take place to include road and path . dog and dog walker be commonly find walk on road and path , and this new measure will help to protect livestock when they be be move — for instance , cow go into a milk parlour , or sheep be move across the field . that be an important new protection . the Bill will extend the specie protect by the Act to include camelid , such as llamas and alpaca . the British Alpaca Society estimate that there might be as many as 45 , 000 alpaca own by member in England , and a further 20 , 000 own by non - member . the Bill will also amend the wording of the offence of livestock worry so that attack livestock be deal with separately from worry livestock . " attack " be part of what be more widely describe as " worry " in the 1953 Act . however , the term " worry " can dismiss the severity of some offence . reframe the Act so that " attack " be distinct from " worry " well highlight the violent nature of incident involve attack on livestock . the new police power will be a huge help to the police . the primary focus of the Bill be to strengthen those power to enable the police to respond to livestock worry incident more effectively . they include extend power of seizure , modify entry power and introduce a new power to take sample and impression from livestock and suspect dog . furthermore , in a survey carry out by the National Sheep Association in 2025 , 98 % of respondent agree that there be an urgent need for additional police power — it be generally unheard of to get 98 % of people to agree on something . the police can currently only seize a dog find or suspect to have worry livestock for the purpose of identify the owner . the police have limit power at their disposal to address reoffende when the same dog be find attack livestock repeatedly , or the same owner have several dog that worry livestock . under this Bill , if the police have reasonable ground to believe that there be a risk that the dog could attack or worry livestock again , they have the power to seize and detain the dog . the dog can be detain until an investigation have be carry out or , if proceeding be bring for an offence , until those proceeding have be determine or withdraw . we hope this power will address the issue of reoffende and dog owner who disregard the law , and will help to address the most serious instance of livestock worry . the Bill will also introduce a power to enable the police to take sample and impression from a dog or livestock where they have reasonable ground to believe that the dog have attack or worry the livestock and that sample or impression might provide evidence of an offence . the sample or impression could then be use as evidence to support a prosecution . sample may be retain until either the police investigation into a potential offence have finish or court proceeding have finish or be withdraw . finally , the Bill will extend the power of entry . under current legislation , the police can enter a premise only for the purpose of identify the dog owner . the reason for extend the power of entry in relation to this offence be to ensure that the police can collect the necessary evidence to prosecute these crime . the Bill will extend police power to allow the police to enter and search a premise , with a warrant , to seize and take sample from a dog if there be reasonable ground to believe that an offence have be commit . the expand power of entry will allow the police to seize item that may be evidence of an offence — for example , a dog collar , or a towel with blood on it . these power be important for improve the conviction rate and reduce the prevalence of reoffende , so that we protect our respected farmer from the horrific consequence of livestock worry . in the light of our improvement to enforcement mechanism to allow the police to deal with and investigate incident of livestock worry more effectively , we hope that livestock owner or bystander will feel encouraged to report more incident , and will know that the report will be take seriously . the Bill will also increase penalty . the penalty be currently set at a maximum fine of £ 1 , 000 . the maximum penalty will be increase to an unlimited fine to act as a deterrent . the court will determine an appropriate fine amount , in line with sentencing guideline , that take into account the seriousness of the offence and the financial circumstance of the offender . the court can already impose a compensation order on an offender , require they to make financial reparation to the victim for any personal injury , loss or damage result from an offence . compensation may be order for such an amount as the court consider appropriate , have regard to any evidence , include any representation make by the offender or prosecutor . there be no limit on the value of a single compensation order hand down to an offender , and the Bill will not change that . a survey carry out by the National Farmers Union in 2025 find that in England , the midland be the worst - hit region by cost , with dog attack on livestock cost an estimate £ 425 , 000 . it be follow by the south - east , where the cost be an estimate £ 225 , 000 . farm animal in the south - east of England worth an estimate £ 139 , 000 be severely injure or kill in dog attack in 2024 . that be up 23 % on the previous year . furthermore , the National Sheep Association find that more than half of all respondent feel that increase fine , punishment and seizure power would reduce sheep worry incident . of course , many responsible dog walker enjoy the countryside without incident . dog owner have a responsibility to ensure that their dog be keep safe and under control . the countryside code highlight that it be good practice to keep dog on a lead around livestock . it say that visitor should always check local sign , as there be location where they must keep their dog on a lead for part or all of the year . we recognise that there be a careful balance to be strike between protect the wide public and their livestock from dog attack , the freedom that people enjoy when they be walk their dog , and , of course , the welfare of those dog , include their freedom to exhibit normal behaviour . the new police power that the Bill will introduce will ensure an effective response to report case . they be vital measure that will help improve enforcement and protect the livelihood of our valuable farming community . countryside access come up . the Bill would cover a scenario in which the person in charge of the dog cause it to attack livestock that have stray on to a road or path . the 1953 Act protect livestock that may have stray from one field to another if it be agricultural land as define in the Act , subject to certain exemption and offence . the countryside code encourage people to check local sign and leave gate as they find they . the public right of way guidance highlight the responsibility of landowner regard waymarke and sign , include the responsibility to use sign to warn people of danger that be not obvious . the welfare of livestock be the responsibility of the owner , and they must take necessary measure to protect their livestock . owner of livestock should of course take reasonable care to see that their livestock do not stray . there be a common law duty on anyone who keep animal in a field next to a road to take reasonable care to prevent their escape , in order to avoid damage . this private Member ' s Bill focus on deliver the great impact by improve the police ' s power to investigate and support conviction . let I say , in answer to a question ask , that it will not be an offence to fail to report an incident . we would always encourage dog walker to be responsible in such circumstance by bring an incident to the attention of the livestock owner and the police , so that the owner can ensure that the injure livestock can receive the care or treatment they need . that be important for welfare reason . it would be difficult to enforce a legal reporting requirement . on other specie be protect , sheep be specifically protect from dog at large because they be most susceptible to distress in the presence of dog , and be prone to abort their young when distressed . primary legislation could be consider in future to add other specie if necessary . that point be raise by one of my hon . friend . the countryside code highlight that it be good practice to keep dog on a lead around livestock , and we would encourage this practice to ensure that dog and walker be keep safe . it be important to note that the Bill will not amend section 1 ( 2A ) of the 1953 Act , which set out an exemption to section 1 ( 2 ) ( c ) for guide dog . owner of a guide dog will remain exempt from criminal liability if their guide dog be at large in a field or enclosure where there be sheep . however , the offence of chase or attack livestock apply to guide dog , and the owner of the guide dog would be commit an offence if the dog chase or attack livestock . ultimately , it remain for the court to decide what can be consider a guide dog . I recognise the strong public support for animal welfare in this country , as reflect in the volume of correspondence receive by my Department and the sustained engagement from stakeholder . key stakeholder , include the livestock and farming sector , the animal welfare sector , the police and the veterinary sector , have be engage in respect of these measure . I apologise to the Bill ' s promoter , the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) , for be late ; I have hope to be here early . the Minister talk about the importance of animal welfare to people up and down the country , not least in Newcastle - under - Lyme . will she give we a flavour of when the Government will publish our animal welfare strategy ? I hate to give my hon . friend the parliamentary answer " in due course " , but he will have to forgive I . as illustrate by the two Bills we have take through the House this morning and the action we have take in our first year , we be very committed to animal welfare , which be of huge importance to the country . as we hear in the previous debate , we be a nation of animal lover . we will not revisit the name of all our pet , but we genuinely have a kind and caring nature . one of my favourite event in Parliament be when we have the cat and dog of Westminster competition , which be more fiercely fight than some by - election . the depth of concern about this issue have be evident in today ' s debate . the Government be fully commit to support this important Bill as it progress through the other place . this Government be elect on a mandate to introduce the most ambitious plan to improve animal welfare in a generation . the Department have initiate a series of meeting with key animal welfare stakeholder as part of the development of an overarch approach to animal welfare , demonstrate our commitment to improve animal welfare across the board , and the Prime Minister have commit to publish an animal welfare strategy later this year — or " in due course " . I thank all member across the House for their support , engagement and constructive comment . once again , I be also grateful for the support from farmer , welfare stakeholder , police and other who welcome the Bill . this Bill will have a lasting impact for those affect by livestock worrying , and I be delighted to support it . I thank the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury and look forward to see the Bill on the statute book . with the leave of the House , I call Aphra Brandreth to wind up the debate . with the leave the House , may I take this opportunity to thank the Minister for the majority of her remark ? of course , we disagree about the conservative record on animal welfare , but I thank she for her personal support and that of the Government for the Bill . I would like to thank to a number of people who have contribute to this legislation . the Bill commence its journey in the last Parliament as a private Member ' s Bill under the sponsorship of Baroness Coffey , and it be fitting that she have express her intent to take the Bill through the other place . I be grateful for her support and wish to put on the record my sincere thank . I thank again all member who have be involve in and speak during the passage of the Bill . it have be a pleasure to work with colleague , and I be incredibly grateful for their involvement . I also want to acknowledge the contribution make today that rightly emphasise that the Bill be not about target dog owner . I be a dog lover myself , and I know that the vast majority of dog owner be responsible and care deeply about animal welfare , whether it be dog , sheep or , indeed , alpaca . the Bill be about ensure that we can all enjoy the countryside responsibly . I thank the team in the Public Bill Office and at DEFRA who have work so hard to progress the Bill . I also thank my brilliant , very hard - work team for all their help , and particularly Joel Hetherington for his invaluable support . finally , I thank the farmer in my constituency of Chester South and Eddisbury who have share their experience with I . their insight into the devastating impact of attack and the difficulty of secure prosecution under the current law have be invaluable in shape the legislation . it really have be a team effort , and the difference we can make as a result of this Bill will be feel across farming community . it be for they that we have bring this legislation forward , and I could not be prouder to have play my part in deliver it . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Absent Voting ( election in Scotland and Wales ) Bill Consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee before we begin , I remind member of the difference between Report and Third Reading . the scope of the Report stage debate be only amendment 1 in the name of the Member in charge . the scope of the Third Reading debate to follow will be the whole Bill as it stand after report . member may wish to consider those point and then decide at which stage or stage they want to try to catch my eye . clause 2 - election to the Scottish Parliament I beg to move amendment 1 , in clause 2 , page 4 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) in section 114 ( subordinate legislation : particular provision ) , in subsection ( 1 ) , after ' section ' insert ' 12B , ' " . this enable regulation make under new section 12b of the Scotland Act 1998 ( as insert by clause 2 ) to be exercise by modify provision make by or under that Act . I be pleased to be in the Chamber today . I thank all member who have take part in the passage of the Bill so far . it address an issue that need to be resolve at pace to ensure that elector in Scotland and Wales can benefit in time for their devolved parliamentary election next May . I be grateful to the House for the unanimous support I have receive . I hope to complete the Commons passage of this important Bill today , but before that be possible , a minor and technical amendment must be make . amendment 1 to clause 2 amend the power in propose new section 12b of the Scotland Act 1998 to expressly indicate that the power can be use to amend secondary legislation make under the Act . the amendment come at the request of the Scottish Government to correct an oversight concern how their devolved legislation operate and how the Bill will be implement . do my hon . friend agree that the UK Government ' s focus , under the Secretary of State for Scotland , on work closely with the Scottish Government — where possible , to be pragmatic — be important ? it have secure an amendment to the Bill that will be of benefit to the voter in Baillieston in my constituency , who go to the polling station at Broomhouse Hall and in the wonderful primary school of Garrowhill , Swinton , Caledonia and St Bridget ' s . yes , I agree . there have be support from the Scottish Government and we have be work in co - operation . how the Bill will be implement by the Scottish Government be a core part of the amendment . without the amendment , the Bill could still deliver on its purpose . however , the Scottish Government would have to repeal and restate the entire Scottish Parliament ( election etc . ) order 2015 with renew provision . the amendment seek to remedy that oversight and ensure that the Scottish Government be able to implement the Bill in their own devolve legislation , so that scottish elector may benefit in time for the May 2026 Scottish Parliament election . it be unfortunate to need to make a technical amendment this late in the process of parliamentary scrutiny , particularly give that the error could have be identify some time ago , but I be glad to be able to assist the Scottish Government with this matter . I commend the amendment to the House . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) on all her work . she have show admirable commitment during the passage of the Bill so far , and her commitment to deliver it for the benefit of voter in Scotland be evident . I also take the opportunity to reaffirm that the Bill have the full support of the Government . I be grateful to have see support from across the House for the change that it will make possible . amendment 1 be further evidence of the diligence that my hon . friend have show towards the Bill . I be particularly grateful to she for accommodate the Scottish Government ' s request for the amendment at this late stage . she have clearly explain that it be a minor and technical amendment that will simplify the implementation process for the Scottish Government . the change in clause 2 make it explicit that the new section 12B power introduce by the Bill can amend secondary legislation make under the Scotland Act . the amendment have be consider by my official , who be content that it do not present any kind of novel approach to legislation or set any precedent . it be simply a sensible change that will avoid unnecessary restatement and then reconsideration of exist legislation by the Scottish Parliament , thereby increase the chance of the important change that the Bill will make possible be deliver in time for the May 2026 Scottish Parliament and Senedd Cymru election . I be pleased that the issue have be identify at this stage , and confirm that the Government support the amendment . amendment 1 agree to . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . with your leave , Madam Deputy Speaker , I want to thank hon . member across the House for their contribution during the various stage of the Bill ' s passage . I also thank the civil servant in the registration and franchise policy team and the Public Bill Office in Parliament for provide I with so much support with the Bill — I can confirm that I have receive quite an education in the legislative process . I pay particular tribute to my hon . friend the Minister for her steadfast support throughout the passage of this Bill . the introduction of the online absent voting application service have give elector in England , Scotland and Wales the option to apply online for a postal or proxy vote in UK general election . elector in England be also give the option to use the online service to apply for a postal or proxy vote for all other type of election that they can participate in ; unfortunately , the same can not be say for voter in Scotland and Wales . as it stand , voter in Scotland and Wales face a fragmented system in which they may apply online for a postal or proxy vote for a UK general election but still rely on fill out paper form for their local council or devolve Parliament election . the Bill enable that inconsistency to be end . in short , the Bill will allow for the extension of the same online application option to voter in Scotland and Wales for devolved election . the goal be to have the measure in place ahead of the devolve election schedule for May 2026 . I have emphasise this before , but I again stress the importance of devolution . the responsibility for local election and election to the Scottish Parliament and Senedd Cymru be rightfully devolve to the respective nation . the Bill have be draft to ensure that devolution be respect , with the proposal have be discuss with Ministers from both the Scottish and Welsh Governments . alongside support from those government , the Bill have enjoy cross - party support throughout its passage . my hon . friend — who recently have her birthday — be quite right to emphasise the importance of good working between the Scottish Government and the Westminster Government to ensure that the voting rule be harmonise . will she outline how that benefit voter at Eastbank primary school and Eastbank academy in Shettleston in my wonderful seat ? I would imagine it mean they will get an extra day off school for the election , which most kid enjoy . the Bill enhance democracy . last year , when the general election be call , it be quite tricky for scottish voter because there be a tight time window ; the Bill will allow people to apply more easily for access to a ballot if they be go to be away on holiday . it have also be welcome by the electoral sector , which recognise the benefit of expand a streamlined and secure system . this be testament to what can be achieve when we work collaboratively across government and party in the interest of democratic participation , as my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) mention . I hope the Bill will proceed through this House and swiftly move to the other place , and I urge member to support its passage today . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) on get this Bill to its Third Reading and get both side of the House behind it , although I note that there be no SNP Members in the Chamber . I be a proud member for an english constituency , but we in Newcastle - under - Lyme have see the benefit of a system that defend and support the franchise and ensure that people be able to have their say . as such , I want to gently contribute to this debate , to give my support to my hon . friend and encourage colleague to get behind the Bill . democracy be important . it be so important that we discuss the Bill , ensure that people up and down the United Kingdom , include in Wales and Scotland , be able to hold their elect politician to account to ensure that their decision reflect their view . we do so on the first anniversary of this Labour Government — that speak very much to the power of the vote . the Bill be about ensure that people have as much support as possible to vote , to have their say , to shape the future and , as I say , to hold their elect representative to account at local and devolved level in Scotland and Wales . I use to work for a Welsh MP , and I live in Scotland and also work for a Scottish MP before my election to this House , so I well recall the challenge and experience . my hon . friend be the Member of Parliament for the wonderful place of Newcastle - under - Lyme . do he agree that the purpose of the Bill be to bring some much - need consistency to vote arrangement across our family of nation ? voter in Newcastle - under - Lyme , Newcastle upon Tyne or the wonderful Newcastleton in Scottish Borders should all be able to vote in a reasonably consistent way . my hon . friend make an important point . I be an English MP ; we be talk about Scotland and Wales ; and my wife be from Northern Ireland . our four nation be very much represent in my short contribution to this debate . I have see personally the ease of the postal and proxy vote system . I love to vote in person , but those in the west midland Labour party be hard taskmaster and encourage we to vote by post so that we can be knock on door , see my hon . friend the Minister beat Torys where and when we can . however , make it easy to vote for people who have health or family issue , or who be call away for work and the rest , be vital . we have see the consequence — the threat to our democracy — of people not think that politic represent they and their issue , and do not involve or include they . we must think about what we can do to neutralise those concern and those fear , as my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) have do so brilliantly in her Bill , notwithstanding her technical amendment , which be support by the House . it speak for itself . I be grateful to you for call I , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be here to support my hon . friend before I get the train home , and I look forward to the Bill successfully pass its Third Reading . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) for bring forward the Bill , which I rise to support . it seek not only to modernise our democratic process but to safeguard the right of every citizen across the devolved nation of the UK . at its heart , the Bill be about strengthen participation and ensure that no one be leave without a voice in our democratic institution . in particular , it seek to streamline and clarify the mechanism for absentee voting — by post or by proxy — in the Scottish Parliament and in the Senedd Cymru election , to align they more effectively with the broad UK framework while respect the integrity of the devolved power . the right to vote be the bedrock of our democracy , but a right be meaningful only if it can be exercise in practice . too many voter across Scotland and Wales , especially those in rural area , student , those with disability and military personnel , have face avoidable barrier to postal or proxy voting . inconsistent regulation and outdated application process have lead to confusion and delay , and the result be that people be prevent from participate in our democracy . they may be serve overseas or temporarily relocate for work or on caring duty for a love one — play a vital part in our society or our economy — yet they be penalise for it by be unable to vote . the Bill ' s reform be sensible and pragmatic and aim to standardise the application procedure for such vote , improve the accessibility and transparency of the system but keep it inclusive and fair . I be well assure that in do so , the Bill do not seek to override or diminish the autonomy of the Scottish Parliament or Senedd Cymru , but rather offer a legislative framework that can be adopt in co - operation with they . it should be see as an opportunity for collaboration — a chance for all corner of the UK to work together to improve the democratic process for every voter . a voter in Aberdeen should have exactly the same confidence in the integrity and accessibility of their vote as my constituent in Aylesbury have . uniformity strengthen , rather than weaken , our Union and our democracy . I want to make a wide point about the context . we have see a decline in voter turnout in recent year , especially among young and transient population . I think that stem from the wide challenge that we have in society of young people , and people more broadly , feel a bit disillusioned and disengage from politic . my hon . friend mention the lack of enthusiasm for vote among some young people . that be a real problem in Scotland . do she agree that one potential explanation be the catastrophic decline of education standard , the insolvency of university in Scotland and so forth ? that may be contribute to a decline in voter enthusiasm . I agree ; the education system play a big part . I thank my hon . friend for make that point , which bring I to a related point . I recently run a work experience programme for a fantastic group of 16 to 18 - year - old in Aylesbury , and I ask the student to come up with idea for what more the Government could do for young people in this country . one group come straight to this point of politic , democracy and law . I thank the young people in that group — Ruqaiya Begum , Jacob McNorton , Munashe Ndoro , Georgia Bolland and Alex Foster — for their suggestion . their ask of the Government be that we give the school curriculum a much great focus on voting system , political awareness , civic engagement , the rule of law and human right . they be spot on , and we have great discussion about how that should help to increase understanding , engagement and participation in our democracy . I share my hope that our manifesto commitment to lower the voting age from 18 to 16 in general election will help to do just that . I really hope that we as a Government will take that forward as quickly as possible . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) for bring forward this important change . do my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Laura Kyrke - Smith ) agree that we need to continue to have the conversation about what democracy mean to people , and that create consistency in the voting system aid that conversation ? I do agree . it be exactly that : if we be go to rebuild trust in democracy , that have to start with election , and with a voting system that people have faith in . we have discuss the urgent need to rebuild engagement and trust in our democracy . that be fundamental , and the Bill , which will make absent voting more user - friendly and dependable , be a really important , concrete step forward . I urge colleague across the House , regardless of which party or region they represent , to support it and help to ensure that no voter anywhere in the UK be absent from participate in our democracy simply because they be absent on polling day . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) for introduce the Bill and welcome the opportunity to raise issue of fairness and equality in the UK ' s democracy . we have see in England that absent voting , by post or proxy , have empower thousand of people to make their voice hear , even when life get in the way , whether in the form of illness , work commitment , accessibility concern , disability , caring commitment , simply be away on holiday or , in the case of my city , serve in another country . no one should be force to choose between voting and the demand of everyday life , so it be only right that voter in Wales and Scotland have the same protection and access . we must not allow a postcode lottery when it come to democracy . as my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Laura Kyrke - Smith ) note , if we as a Government be serious about strengthen trust in politic , we must make voting easy , not hard . on that note of make voting easy , it would be remiss of I if I be not to welcome the Government ' s move to allow the veteran ID card to be use as valid voter identification . that be really welcome by many Portsmouth North resident who have serve our country . it be absolutely right that those who have serve our country be not exclude from democratic participation due to ID restriction . many veteran , particularly those who be old or more vulnerable , tell I how they face real challenge access approve form of ID , so recognise the veteran ID card as valid be a small but significant step towards honour that service and ensure their voice be hear in the ballot box . although the Bill do not address voting age , I want to place on record my strong support for extend voting right to 16 and 17 - year - old across the whole of the UK to ensure fairness , whether in absent voting or by age . young people in Scotland and Wales already vote in devolve and local election , and it be time young people in England and Northern Ireland have the same voice across all election . the Bill be a step towards a fair and more accessible democracy . it be a step we must take . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) on bring forward the Bill . devolution have be an interest of mine for a very long time . it be the topic of my master ' s dissertation and my first job outside politic , so I be thrilled to be back deal with it all again as a member of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee . the Bill remind I that one of the main argument in favour of introduce devolution be to free up parliamentary time . it be consider bizarre that there we be , in the late 20th century , when devolution be be debate , with feudalism still in Scotland because no government could possibly find the parliamentary time in the UK Parliament to try to resolve those issue and other issue of concern to resident in Scotland . that highlight the importance of produce body that could grant that time to consider those issue , and many other issue , on a local basis of what could be the good for resident in those area . the fact that these measure be come via a private Member ' s Bill continue to highlight the importance of try to secure well parliamentary time for different part of the UK for the issue that matter to they , and the importance of devolution to ensure that matter of relevance for Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland — and hopefully for England in due course — be address . I note that the amendment continue with that approach , empower devolve government ' ability to implement change in their own way . it highlight how it remain entirely possible for the nation to have the right power to deliver for their citizen in the right way without have to engage with all the problem that would come with any approach to independence , so long may that approach continue . I be glad to see the consultation that have take place with devolved administration , as I believe consent be an incredibly important part of the process of ensure that our devolution settlement operate well . I believe that that be critical . technically , as a unitary system we have parliamentary sovereignty in this place and the UK Parliament can still legislate unilaterally in these area , but if the devolve settlement be to survive , every part of the United Kingdom must be prepare to play their role in that partnership . I can not claim to be a fan of the Elections Act 2022 , which bring many of the provision into place . during my time in local government , I be the chair of the working group that the Local Government Association set up to go through the provision in the Bill , which be assist by representative of return officer and representative of electoral service administrator . it would be fair to say that their view of most of the provision be wholly negative in the context of what the Bill seek to do , and many of the argument do not seem to make a huge amount of sense at the time . none the less , we do produce a number of cross - party conclusion . regrettably , they be not adopt by the LGA until far too late in the process to have have any viable impact . the aspect in the Bill be , I believe , positive . they should help to enable great access to absent voting for resident in Scotland and Wales , and hopefully avoid some of the confusion that arise . as a country , we have an increasingly confusing set of election arrangement . many different type of electoral system be employ , there be different age arrangement in different place and there be different rule around this , that and the other . when people think that one set of rule be in play and in fact , give a particular context , there be another , that create grow problem with confidence in our electoral system . although it be a challenge , it be important to our democracy that , as far as possible , the general public understand how the system operate , how they select their governor and how they express their voice . that be a critical part of the UK retain genuine democratic accountability . the more that can be do to harmonise arrangement across the entire United Kingdom , and to ensure that there be a much simple approach to people express their view to we , the great the level of confidence in the system . have two different set of arrangement around cast vote can not do much to encourage people to engage in the process . the very low level of turnout at the last general election , which be a year ago today , suggest that there be issue that need to be address in how we try to engage people in the process and encourage they to participate . one big problem be that if we do not have a viable system to enable people to cast their vote , take into account people ' s differ capacity to attend polling station , we risk have a bias in the system in favour of one set of group and against another . young able - bodied people and those who be less busy will be in a well position to participate and submit their vote , mean the electoral system will gradually move in favour of only part of the population . that will deliver outcome in those election that may result in the system no long act as a voice for the whole of society , only a part of that society . we be all aware of some area where that already happen , where there be high turnout by some group relative to other group , result in they have preferential status in our electioneering . the more that can be do to make it as easy as possible for people to cast their vote , the great the likelihood that we will have a more representative sample of elector participate in the system , and that all our different institution will genuinely represent the view of constituent within the country , and consequentially within policy . I conclude by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith on introduce the Bill . it be an important step towards address many of the issue , and I hope further step will be forthcoming to increase great accountability and democratic participation in our democracy . I be oblige to my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) for introduce this important piece of legislation . for hon . member who do not know Edinburgh North and Leith , the word " and " be very important in the name of that constituency : Leith be quite separate from Edinburgh — it be a separate city and a wonderful city too . I have many fond memory of be in my hon . friend ' s constituency , because I study in Edinburgh and I be involve in the Children ' s Holiday Venture charity , which be still go strong . student would take child who have be refer by social worker out swimming , ice skating or away to the countryside for the weekend . I love my time with that charity , know as " the Students " in Pilton , in my hon . friend ' s seat . the Bill tackle the important issue of trust in politic . in a way , it be mechanistic , in that it look at mechanism for voting , but trust in politic be damage if people feel that they can not exercise their right to vote because they have be exclude by be disabled , on holiday or for other reason . People ' s trust in politic be damage if they feel that they be prevent from vote for reason that they , quite properly , view as be archaic and anachronistic . these issue be raise with I during the last general election campaign , as it take place during the scottish school holiday . we have different school holiday date in Scotland . they start early because our harvest be early — not very important in Glasgow East , where there be no farm whatsoever . People feel exclude from voting because they have go on holiday , and the arrangement do not run as well as they ought to have do . the Bill give the Scottish and Welsh Governments concurrent power to introduce regulation to enable application for postal and proxy vote for the devolved Administrations to be make online use the Government Digital Service . that will make it easy for my constituent in Carmyle , a wonderful mining village , to vote . the Bill also align postal voting renewal cycle . this be confusing for I , but postal voting cycle in Scotland be not align , and postal vote be very important for many people . that will help , for example , a postal voter in Mount Vernon who can not get to Mount Vernon primary school to exercise their right to vote . that be important for confidence in democracy . other example of divergence be set out well in the explanatory note , which be pull together by my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith and the relevant Department . it be important to minimise divergence in this area and harmonise the rule , because people will question our democracy if those in , for example , Wishaw and Tollcross — I speak about it early , with its wonderful park — be subject to different rule from , say , relative in Northumberland , Newcastle , Corby or London . that have be the subject of comment in report by the Electoral Commission and the Electoral Management Board for Scotland , which do much important work in scrutinise election rule . I understand that PACAC also take an interest in it . it be important that these rule operate effectively so that , for example , constituent of mine in Calton and Bridgeton — voting , perhaps , at Bridgeton library , Sacred Heart primary school or Dalmarnock primary school — can cast their vote . it be important that those body keep this under control . the Bill result from close work with the UK Government and the Scottish Government . the Secretary of State for Scotland have put a lot of work into ensure that the government work together where possible for the good of people in Scotland . my hon . friend have highlight PACAC ' s work scrutinise election . as Parliament ' s Select Committee that be oversee this part of the process , we produce recommendation on behalf of the United Kingdom as a whole . give that the Bill will devolve to Scottish Government representative more delegate legislation power around implementation , do he think it be important that we have a close link between our own Select Committees and those in Scotland and Wales , to ensure that the right lesson be learn and implement across the whole United Kingdom , rather than just in any one of its constituent part ? that be a very good point , and I suggest that the Chair of PACAC pick it up with the Chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee . there be learning from what happen in Scotland that we can apply in the rest of our family of nation , and vice versa — although I would say that there be no learning that we can draw from the SNP Government on run a health service , which be in a catastrophic state in Scotland . speak of the health service , which be suffer in Scotland , it be important — order . I remind member that we really ought to stay in scope and discuss absent voting in Scotland and Wales , and not necessarily the health service . I do apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be just come to the point that this Bill be so important because voter need to be able to exercise their right to vote to express their view on the management of council and the Government in Scotland , and the Bill enable people to do so . I apologise for appear to stray slightly , but it be bring I to that important point . with that , Madam Deputy Speaker , I think we have hear enough from I . I call the shadow Minister . first , I congratulate the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) on her tenacity in get this Bill through its parliamentary stage . it be timely that the hon . Lady have today — on the first anniversary of an election that I might care to forget , but that she will definitely care to remember for the rest of her career — make such a great change to our democratic structure through our Bill . if she have achieve this much in the first 12 month , I , for one , look forward to see what she will achieve in the next four year . I would like to genuinely congratulate she on behalf of the official Opposition and Members across the House on the way she have conduct herself in get this legislation on the statute book . her constituent will also quite rightly be proud . I also want to take this opportunity to wish member across the House a happy first anniversary — although , technically , the anniversary be tomorrow . we be all tired in the early hour of that morning ; for I , it be 4 . 36 be , as I remember . I wish a happy anniversary to all new mp across the House on their first anniversary of serve in this place . I look forward to work with they on a cross - party basis over the next four year , and maybe beyond . rise — I be just about to refer to the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , but I will let he go first . I wish the shadow Minister a happy anniversary , too . well , I thank the hon . Gentleman — my friend — for what I know be warm and genuine congratulation . I be about to say that I even congratulate the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme a happy anniversary on his election . I be still utterly convinced that while he be the most sartorially elegant MP on the labour Benches — [ interruption . ] the Whip on duty , the hon . member for Bury South ( Christian Wakeford ) , who have not even bother to wear a tie , be somehow shout " Shame " . I say to the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme that I be still convinced that deep down , he be a secret conservative , and we look forward to see his slow conversion to this side of the House over the next four year . wishful thinking be all I will say , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be very proud of my Labour party membership card , thank you very much . Thou doth protest too much — I think we will just keep it to the fact that the hon . Gentleman be the most sartorially elegant member of the Labour parliamentary party , and I would be grateful , after this debate , if he could tell I where he get his tie . by the way , I also want to say happy anniversary to those of we who survive the last election , too — especially my hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) , who be sit on the Front Bench next to I . I welcome the Minister be in her place . the conservative completely agree with her remark on the amendment that be table . it be perfectly straightforward , and we support it . in a rare moment of cross - party unity , we completely echo what the Minister have say , and therefore we do not need to say much more on that . I will just pay tribute to the four back - Bench contributor for their remark . the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme have say he be make a habit of beat conservative , but let we just see what happen in four year ' time — I will not predict what will happen at the next election . as I say early , he be a genuine friend , and I genuinely like his engage contribution to many debate in this House ; they be always back up by the principle aim he have in any area of policy in this House — long may that continue . the hon . member for Aylesbury ( Laura Kyrke - Smith ) give a great speech . she set out the full scope of the Bill clearly and how it will make a tangible change to many people who live in Scotland . I congratulate she on that . even though the hon . member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) be from a rival city down the Solent from I , I think she make an excellent contribution . she make important point on the change to the legislation to ensure that veteran card can be use as official ID for voting . I represent many veteran in my community , particularly naval veteran — as I know the hon . Lady do , with the home of the Royal Navy in Portsmouth North — and I know that that be a vital change that be be make . it be a commitment of the previous Government ; I think it be fair to say that parliamentary time run out , so we be unable to do that , so I be pleased that that the new Government take that forward . the hon . member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) be right to share his expertise on devolution , and give fascinating historical context for this Bill . I remember be in the Stag ' s Head pub on the University of Southampton ' s campus in 2006 , when he be chairman of the university ' s Labour Society and I be chairman of its Conservative Association . for transparency , I will declare that it be a lot small than the Labour Society . I be not sure whether he ever imagine that we would share a Chamber today . as we see from his speech , he be a fierce defender of democracy , a fierce supporter of devolution , and a passionate defender of his belief and principle . I wish he well go forward . I be very grateful to the hon . member for his kind remark . give that we be talk about democratic engagement and encourage great participation , do he agree that there be few well way of encourage people to engage with the system than get they into student politic at university ? my hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) just say that he could not think of anything bad , but I absolutely agree with the hon . Gentleman . I see something very special in he when we battle together . he be in the year above I , though hon . member might not think so from look at he . I absolutely agree that university can be at the forefront and heart of early democratic engagement , and can shape people ' s view and political compass . I be perfectly willing to say in this House that my politic 15 , 16 or 17 year ago be very different from my politic today . that be down to the genuinely open nature of debate in this Chamber and , most importantly , on university campus . I be feel a bit leave out , because the hon . member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) regularly intervene on other but have not intervene on I . he give a staunch defence of the Bill in some particularly pertinent area , and talk about other area that be maybe not so pertinent . I will watch he over the next four year . I wonder how many school in his constituency he have mention in his first 12 month in this House . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? as if I could not . I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word . have spend a lot of time with he on the Planning and Infrastructure Bill Committee , I know that the charming way in which he present his submission would enhance people ' s trust in politic , include those vote at Calton Parkhead parish church hall . I be oblige . the hon . Gentleman never let I down . I hope he do not say that within earshot of the Leader of the Opposition , but I can promise she on the Floor of the House that she have nothing to worry about from I . like he , I will carry on engage in debate in this House . where we do not agree , we can do so in a nice , polite and respectful way . we be talk about enhance democracy for the people of Scotland through this legislation ; the way that member have conduct themselves today serve as a lesson on how people should conduct themselves . I be not talk about any specific party . the Bill be welcome , and make the necessary provision to ensure that where there be divergence , the whole of Great Britain ' s share democratic value be bring into close practical alignment . it support the unity of our democratic system while respect the devolved nation ' identity . the conservative party will always look to bridge the gap between the constituent national community that make our country so vibrant . in my role on the Opposition Front Bench , I spend much of my time fight against what I perceive to be the Government ' s repeat attempt to strip local people of their agency and voice . I have have disagreement with the hon . member for Glasgow East on the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , but this Bill be refreshing . frankly , it be a relief to be able to support the work of the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith , who have bring forward a Bill that empower , rather than undermine , our citizen . specifically , we welcome the provision that make it easy for people across Scotland and Wales to participate in election . this Bill honour the principle that democracy should be accessible to all , not a privilege for the few . that be a principle that we on the conservative Benches will always defend , as I know the Minister do through her role . accessibility be vital , but so too be security . protect the integrity of our election and guard against fraud or interference be a core responsibility of any Government . minister must take decisive and proactive step , while modernise and reform our system , to prevent malign influence , whether domestic or foreign . we do not have to look for long to see instance of electoral interference from foreign state and non - state actor . indeed , most recently , it be report that dozen of anonymous pro scottish independence x account allegedly operate by Iran ' s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps have go silent since Israel launch strike on iranian military and cyber target on 12 June . the account , which seem to use fake scottish identity to spread anti - uk sentiment , be identify by Clemson University researcher as be part of a suspect foreign influence campaign . that example be one among many , and it illustrate an important point that we all must take seriously . that be why I welcome the Government ' s state commitment to work closely with the Electoral Commission and other to protect the integrity , security and effectiveness of UK election and referendum . I urge they to ensure that this be not just rhetoric but reality . it be right to note that the Bill build on work by the previous Government , include the Elections Act 2022 , which take important step to strengthen the security of our democratic process , introduce requirement such as digital imprint on online campaign material and enhance transparency in political funding . those be much - need reform , and it be a shame that legislative consent be not give to those measure in 2022 . the Bill now mitigate the effect of that decision . as the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith say , the inclusion of identity verification for postal and proxy vote application be another necessary measure to close off vulnerability in our system . there must not be a mismatch between how people register by post and how they do so digitally . these be technical detail , but their impact on the integrity of our electoral process be profound . we must not allow inconsistent standard to become weak spot in our democracy , because we can be sure that our adversary abroad would use those to divide we and cause chaos in any way they can . this Bill represent a sensible and timely move to enhance voter access and uphold the integrity of our electoral system . by align absent voting procedure in devolve election with those across the rest of the United Kingdom , it help to modernise and safeguard our democratic process for the future . crucially , it also empower voter in Scotland and Wales by make participation in election simple and more accessible . I must reiterate what I say on Second reading : I urge the Government to abandon their plan to water down voter ID requirement . they have find it within themselves to make u - turn in other area . today we be legislate to make voting easy for people while maintain adequate security , but we can not also have the Government water down voter ID requirement , which would reduce security in our voting system . on that rare note of disharmony during an afternoon of unity , I congratulate the hon . member for Edinburgh North and Leith again on the constructive and inclusive approach that she have take . I look forward to see this legislation on the statute book . let we see whether she bring more legislation forward over the next four year to make a real difference in this country . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) on all her fantastic work , and on ensure there be cross - party support for this Bill . I echo the point that the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) , make about her ability to make such an important change so quickly ; we be celebrate it be a year since the general election . I commend my hon . friend the Members for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , for Aylesbury ( Laura Kyrke - Smith ) , for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) , for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) and for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) for their excellent speech , which highlight the importance of this private Member ' s Bill . they also point out some of the change that we have already make ; for instance , I be proud to have introduce the veteran ID card while in government . there be also a specific proposal in our manifesto to reduce the voting age , so that 16 and 17 - year - old can vote . the Government share the commitment of my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith to this Bill , which will give people in Scotland and Wales the same choice for manage their voting arrangement for devolved election as they already have for reserved election . many of we will remember a time when absent voting in the UK be still govern by excessively restrictive criterion ; elector have to provide valid reason , such as illness , travel or occupational constraint , to qualify for a postal vote . similarly , proxy voting be limit to those with clear impediment to attend the polling station . this change in 2001 , when postal voting on demand be introduce in Great Britain , allow elector to freely apply for a postal vote . that change be quickly embrace by the electorate : in the 2001 general election , there be a significant increase in the number of postal vote issue compare with previous election , and by 2005 , the figure have more than double . by 2010 , over 7 million postal vote be issue across the UK . now that elector have be give the choice to vote in a way that good suit they and their need , it have become clear that there be significant demand for flexibility in how people exercise their democratic right . while it be less commonly use , the option to vote via a proxy have also remain a viable and necessary alternative for many elector across the country . in 2007 , measure be introduce to verify the identity of postal voter . they add a layer of security to the process and ensure that elector could have confidence in the system . these include the requirement for voter to provide personal identifier , such as their date of birth and signature , when apply for and return postal ballot . the introduction of the " Register to vote " service in 2014 give elector the ability to go online and make their application to vote without need to submit a paper application . that change , much like the change to absent voting , have prove extremely popular with the electorate ; in 2024 , over 92 % of all application to register to vote be make use the online service , with less than 8 % take the traditional paper route . the modernisation of our electoral system through the change I have just lay out have prove popular with elector time and again . the Bill relate to the online absent vote application service , which , as have be point out , go live in October 2023 as a result of the need to modernise the way in which elector apply for their absent vote . give the enthusiasm that elector have show for the freedom to decide the method by which they cast their ballot , and the clear preference for use online service to apply to vote , it be no surprise that the new online absent vote application service have also prove popular . unfortunately , as we have hear , voter in Scotland and Wales can use the new online service to apply for postal and proxy vote only for reserved election , such as election to the UK Parliament . the benefit of extend the online absent vote application service to devolve election for elector in Scotland and Wales be clear . it will allow people in Scotland and Wales the option of apply online for a postal or proxy vote for devolve parliamentary and local election , or of apply through a traditional paper application . in Scotland and Wales , voter who wish to apply for a postal or proxy vote in devolve parliamentary or local election must still complete a paper application form and submit it by post . as we have hear , this Bill seek to give elector in Scotland and Wales the same choice as other over how they apply for their absent vote for use in Senedd Cymru , Scottish Parliament , and local election . as my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith have say , the Scottish Parliament and Senedd Cymru will hold their parliamentary election in May 2026 . it would be hugely beneficial both to voter and to electoral administrator in Scotland and Wales alike if access to the online service be make available in time for those election . there be a great deal of enthusiasm from the Scottish and Welsh Governments about the benefit , as be make clear to I in my meeting in Cardiff this week with the Scottish Government Minister for Parliamentary Business and the Welsh Government Cabinet Secretary for Housing and Local Government . as my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith say , the Bill have be welcome by those work in the Scottish and Welsh electoral sector . my official work closely with the electoral administration community , and as such I can say with confidence that the Bill will deliver clear benefit for both elector and administrator , in particular by remove the need for duplicate application to be make for devolved and reserved absent vote . that mean less time for elector spend make application and less time for administrator spend processing application . we will continue to work closely with the Scottish and Welsh Governments , include on technical aspect of the Bill ' s implementation . the change in the Bill represent just one of the way that this Government intend to encourage electoral engagement and participation . as I have mention , we will also lower the voting age , give 16 - year - old and 17 - year - old the right to shape their future at the ballot box . we will set out plan to far strengthen the integrity of election and encourage participation in democracy . we be work in partnership with the electoral sector to bring about the change in this Bill and the many other change we be seek to make . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith for her tireless work on this important Bill . I be also grateful to the shadow Minister for his and his party ' s support for the Bill , for which I be glad there have be wide cross - party support . I be grateful to my hon . friend and other hon . member for take such strong interest in the Bill and for come here on a Friday to speak in support of it . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith once again for her work , and I look forward to work with colleague to ensure that the Bill pass . I hope very much that member will support the Bill ' s measure and ensure that it advance to the other place . with the leave of the House , I call Tracy Gilbert to wind up . with the leave of the House , I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I thank member from across the House for their contribution and support today . in particular , I thank the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) for his very kind remark ; it show how we can work across the House with kindness and mutual support , which I be very grateful for . I thank my team for the work they have do to support I during this first year and for help I to bring this Bill forward , along with official from Government Departments . without their support , I would not have be able to bring the Bill to the House . I look forward to the continued support of hon . member for the Bill as it pass through its stage . it be apt to be speak today , when a year ago today we be all await our fate to see whether we would be make the journey to this place . I put on the record my thank to my constituent in Edinburgh North and Leith for enable I to secure my place in this House , thereby enable I to take forward this piece of legislation . it will enhance democracy and encourage participation for all our constituent across the whole of the UK . I look forward to the Bill receive support to enable it to pass to the other place . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Space Industry ( Indemnities ) Bill Third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I will start with a short summary of the Bill . which will amend two section of the Space Industry Act 2018 to provide legal certainty that all spaceflight operator licence must include a limit on the amount of the operator ' s liability to the Government under section 36 of the Act . the reason for that be that under international law applicable to space , government include the UK be liable for damage to property or death or personal injury cause by space activity . section 36 pass on that liability to spaceflight operator and require they to indemnify the Government . without legal certainty over a cap , much - need investment in the UK space industry , which be critical for defence and civilian purpose , will be hold back , and that investment will go elsewhere . that be the purpose of the Bill : to encourage vital investment in our space sector , of which we should be proud . I realise that parliamentarian in this place have not always be enthusiastic about space . when the soviet spacecraft Luna 2 reach the surface of the moon on 13 September 1959 , the Foreign Secretary Selwyn Lloyd , who go on to be a Speaker of this place , react with great enthusiasm . he say : " I don ' t think many people be terribly interested in the russian rocket " , despite it be historic . Harold Macmillan , on the other hand , be much more enthusiastic . when Armstrong and Aldrin be wait in the lunar module , and we have have a man on the moon , Harold Wilson say : " we must all be fill with a profound sense of wonder and admiration in witness this historic event . " in fact , the UK play an important role in that space mission , and UK industry be involve , too . there be somewhat of a stooshie — a scot word for a row — about the failure of the british ambassador to attend the launch , and his letter in the National Archives explain why . his explanation basically boil down to the fact that he have be to one previously , and that once you have see one space launch , you have see they all . it just go to show that the importance of the special relationship be nothing new , but it do cause somewhat of a stooshie . of course , nothing in 1969 be as important as Newcastle United win the Inter - Cities Fairs cup . my hon . friend just talk about the importance of the space sector to so many of we and , indeed , to the whole of the UK . will he join I in welcome this Labour UK Government ' s investment in the space sector in Scotland ? yes . the UK Government have invest in Orbex , in Forres in the north of Scotland . it remain important to give grant to early - stage company because they can not get the equity and debt funding that more advanced company can , so I welcome that important investment . the space sector and satellite be central to almost everyone ' s day - to - day life . when we tap in and out of the underground on the way home or when we purchase thing , that rely on satellite technology . space be also a key focus for the national wealth fund , as confirm by Lord Livermore , who be Financial Secretary to the Treasury , and John Flint , the chief executive of the national wealth fund , when we discuss the fund at the Treasury Committee this week . space be an important future business for Britain , and an important economic opportunity . another reason why it be important to invest in space be for defence — it be critical to the defence of the United Kingdom . if we have a vibrant space industry in the United Kingdom , that will support the technological innovation we need to defend our country and our ally as we move into a much more difficult foreign policy context . I be sure my hon . friend will be aware of the role that the Starlink system have play in Ukraine in enable the frontline operation of the ukrainian army . for a very long time , GPS be the main determinator of whether Trident could arrive at its destination . it strike I that in some way the technology , our ability to put thing into space and what we be put up there will be what absolutely determine the nature of warfare in the 21st century ; do my hon . friend agree ? my hon . friend make an important point . the UK Government have commit to invest in defence and in advance in tech defence . as we develop defence , invest in space be utterly critical and central to that . it be a matter of some regret that scottish company that invest in military matter be not fund by the Scottish National Investment Bank or Scottish Enterprise , because they have the view that we should not invest in defence , even though it will create job and be important for defend the north of Scotland , which be where my mother come from and which be now very important for defence . I be an MP for Glasgow , which have a rich history of innovation and an incredibly promising cluster of space expertise . my seat have the fantastic University of Strathclyde . I recently meet Professor Malcolm Macdonald from the university , who be the director of the centre for signal and image processing and the apply space technology laboratory . he outline to I with great enthusiasm and knowledge the amount of innovation in the space sector in Glasgow and across the United Kingdom . this be a critical industry that we must invest in and for which we must create the condition of investment . around 52 , 000 people work in the space sector across the UK , so this be a big opportunity . let I turn to talk about precisely what the Bill do , albeit with four word : it seek to limit space operator ' liability . I emphasise that spaceflight activity be heavily regulate by the UK Civil Aviation Authority for safety . there be day - to - day scrutiny of their safety from an expert safety regulator — the CAA be one of the good regulator in the world — so we be concern with small risk that be reduce to the very minimum extent possible by a very strong regulatory regime . one of the reason why our family of nation have a great advantage in space be that because we be right at the end of Europe , we have a great place to launch , because we do not launch over big urban area . if we go right up to Shetland , there be nothing for hundred of mile . there be treaty under international space law , and the UK Government have a long - stand legal liability for damage cause by UK spaceflight - relate operation . despite the space safety regime , there be a residual risk that thing go wrong and the UK Government face claim . the UK Government can make claim against operator , which take place under section 36 of the 2018 Act . that be quite proper . operator have to assume and bear risk , and the Government need to ensure that operator can pay out on claim make against they — as we be quite rightly adopt a cross - party spirit today , I commend the previous Government on their work on space law — which be why the regime under the 2018 Act make provision for space operator to put in place compulsory insurance . the business have to insure themselves and be regulate by a very competent regulator . the question be : what happen if a claim exceed the amount of insurance that can be put in place on a sensible basis ? that be really what we be address here . the current legislation do not require the Civil Aviation Authority or the Government to include a cap in the licence ; it make it optional . section 12 ( 2 ) of the 2018 Act provide : " an operator licence may specify a limit on the amount of the licensee ' s liability under section 36 in respect of the activity authorise by the licence . " the critical thing that my Bill will do be quite simply to swap " may " for " must " , and as a consequence the word " any " in section 36 be change to " the " . that be consistent with long - stand Government policy that the liability should be limit — there be a clear , document policy that it be limited . however , the problem with document policy as oppose to statute — as a recover lawyer , I go back to my legal career here — be that Government policy be ultimately much easy to change than statute . we can have a claim for legitimate expectation and a breach of those , but that be a very difficult class of claim to run , and there have not be a huge number of successful case of that sort in the court . it be a difficult area of public law . business quite properly say , " you could change this policy and expose our exist investment to additional risk . " business could also fairly go and look elsewhere for investment . investor will not invest in the same way in the face of a lack of statutory protection , so the critical thing the Bill do be to include a statutory protection . it require the Government to cap the liability and encourage people to invest , and that put we on a par with our principal competitor nation for space investment . so , four word to the Bill , with two swap , but it be absolutely critical for the future of an industry that could be brilliant for the United Kingdom and all our constituent for year to come . do my hon . friend agree that the space sector give our country — and indeed to the world — a sense of possibility and innovation ? he talk about the four word in the Bill — Buzz Lightyear provide we with another four word to take inspiration from : " to infinity and beyond ! " my hon . friend make an excellent point , as she do regularly . the space sector create enthusiasm for young people . when I meet young student at the University of Strathclyde , I could see that it have engender excitement about the future , and that be a good thing . I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I speak on this Bill as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for space . I congratulate the hon . member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) on have such a massive effect on the UK space industry by change just two word in the Space Industry Act 2018 . his Bill be perhaps one of the most sublime Bills relate to the space sector that I have see . it be truly incredible that we can have such a change to our industry . we have have a space sector in this country for many year and it have be quite successful . as we have hear , it be currently worth about £ 19 billion a year and employ about 52 , 000 people , but the sector ' s potential be absolutely enormous . the expectation be that , by 2035 , the global space sector will be worth £ 1 . 8 trillion , and it be the ambition of this country at some point to get about 10 % of that sector . that would be £ 180 billion a year of economic activity , so it be incredibly important . the hon . Gentleman make important point about the space sector and all the exciting thing we can do beyond the K á rm á n line in space . importantly for those Scottish Members present , we will see the most symbolic part of the space sector to the north of Unst in the Shetland island , hopefully before the year be out : a launch from british soil . that be genuinely very exciting . our whole economy can benefit . the hon . Gentleman be help to open up an opportunity for the City of London , which for a long time have be a financer of innovation , trade and many different thing . importantly , it have be one of the big wholesale and specialist insurance market in the world . by change two word in the 2018 Act , the hon . Gentleman be not only unleash spaceflight licensing for the UK but unleash yet more opportunity at Lloyd ' s of London . on top of that , as we see more space business come to locate in the UK because of that opportunity , we will see even more opportunity , such as space company be list on the London stock exchange , bond issue and a whole load of corporate finance activity . beyond that , there will be yet more activity in the legal sector , for example . the Bill be therefore incredibly important . the hon . Gentleman have do something incredibly simple but incredibly important , and all in the space sector be incredibly grateful . I have a small anecdote about Buzz Lightyear — we hear mention of his catchphrase , " to infinity and beyond ! " I meet Buzz Aldrin ' s son a few year ago and make a joke about " to infinity and beyond " to he , and he turn around to I and say , " the Disney corporation never pay my dad enough for that . " I congratulate the hon . gentleman on his Bill . it will be truly transformational . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) for bring the Bill forward . I also thank the hon . member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) for chair the all - party parliamentary group for space and for his promotion of the sector . as the MP for Portsmouth North , I strongly support this pivotal Bill , which will unlock further growth in our already thrive regional space cluster . it will ensure that operator take responsibility but , critically , that their liability be limited . as we hear from my hon . friend , that statutory provision will bring we in line with our competitor . Portsmouth and the wide Hampshire region be increasingly central to the UK ' s space ambition . through initiative such as Space South Central , we be part of the large regional space cluster in the country , which generate more than £ 3 billion annually and employ more than 5 , 600 people . in Portsmouth , our university , small and medium - sized enterprise and global industry leader work in close partnership to pioneer satellite application , mission design and advanced technology . the Bill ' s provision to offer limited Government indemnity to commercial launch provider be critical . it will lower barrier to entry , de - risk new venture , attract investment and enable orbital mission from UK soil . that be not just theoretical ; it have real implication for Portsmouth ' s space sector . let I highlight some of the potential beneficiary in my city . the University of Portsmouth ' s Institute of Cosmology and Gravitation be actively design small satellite mission , from Earth observation cubesat to lunar radio probe . its space mission incubator and CosmoCube project be prime example of innovation that stand to gain from accelerated launch capability . the university also host the South Coast Centre of Excellence in Satellite Applications — part of the Satellite Applications Catapult , which support business in satellite development , data - drive service and AI application . the indemnity will provide confidence to those sme enter into new orbit venture . in the private sector , global giant such as Airbus Defence and Space operate from Portsmouth ' s Hilsea facility . its multimillion - pound Oberon reconnaissance satellite contract with the Ministry of Defence sustain 1 , 000 local job — role that will be bolster by a more robust UK space launch ecosystem . it also provide fantastic apprenticeship opportunity for young people . Hampshire - base firm such as QinetiQ , BAE Systems , Lockheed Martin and Airbus be deeply integrate into space innovation and , locally , into our community . with the Bill ' s indemnity framework , these organisation — university and company alike — will gain access to fast mission approval and great capacity to adopt emerge UK launch provider , with result include new job , expand contract , strengthen regional growth and a win for my city . let we consider the Bill ' s impact . More research - lead satellite such as CosmoCube could be develop and launch from Cornwall or Scotland , but Portsmouth business will be able to contribute all the way from design to orbit . Portsmouth ' s science , technology , engineering and math pipeline , from UTC Portsmouth through to the university ' s Mission Space programme , will benefit enormously from real , home - grow launch activity . that will inspire student , help retain talent and create new high - tech career path . charity and public service will also benefit . space - enable monitoring application power by datum from low - cost satellite could support coastal management , environmental protection and emergency response in my maritime city . it would be remiss of I not to mention the charity that I be a trustee of , STEMunity , which have a fantastic reception this week and , by work with a number of other charity and public and private sector company , have introduce young people to the world of space . this be not just a technical fix of four word ; it be a strategic piece of legislation that can help cement Portsmouth ' s place in the UK space age — and , indeed , the UK in the world — by reduce risk for our inventor . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) for bring forward this important Bill . it be fantastic to see space make in today ' s programme to debate it . many of the contribution have be out of this world . [ interruption . ] I be sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Bill be a timely and necessary measure to sharpen the UK ' s competitive edge in what be undoubtedly one of the most strategically important domain of our time . have almost complete my first year on the armed force parliamentary scheme , I have see at first hand that our security rely not only on land , sea and air , but increasingly on the space domain and our asset in orbit . satellite communication , Earth observation and precise navigation form the backbone of military operation , but also of our civil economy — I will come back to that later . as my hon . friend the Member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) point out in his intervention , any disruption up there have immediate and profound consequence to operation down here . we know at first hand that China and other nation be take leap and bound in its drive to dominate the space domain , so anything we can do to strengthen the UK space economy be critical . before come to this House , I be very fortunate that my team support client such as Defence Equipment & Support in negotiation around the space domain , in particular provide well commercial and buy support , which be critical , so I have see at first hand the complexity of this emerge market , and how the public sector need to keep up to date and respond to the demand and the ask of the private sector , and drive growth . just down the road from I in Harwell , a project complete by my former firm in 2023 , the National Satellite Test Facility , receive £ 120 million of new investment by the public sector through the Science and Facilities Technology Council . that show that when we unlock investment , it be not just about the asset that end up in space , but about the big , chunky , complex engineering construction opportunity that be open up in place such as the OxCam corridor , where my constituency sit . through that work , I have see how the private sector be poise and hungry to drive forward the next wave of space innovation . what be hold we back , generally , be not technology , talent , innovation or the drive for growth , but regulatory uncertainty . despite the fact that the Bill relate to only four word , as my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East say , it will make a big difference . the Space Industry Act 2018 lay the groundwork for the modern commercial sector we have in space . I commend the previous Government , as we be debate in a spirit of collaboration and co - operation across the House , for their work on that and for the space industrial strategy , which be publish later . I can see echo of that now in the industrial strategy , and I know that when the defence industrial strategy come out later in the year , space will be front and centre of that as well . it be positive that we can build on some of the good work do by the Conservatives . without know what financial exposure firm might face if an accident or an incident occur , company hesitate to invest , insurer demand eye - water premium , and ultimately , we lose manufacture contract to other jurisdiction . the simple but powerful adjustment make by the Bill change the law so that the indemnity limit for each operator licence be not optional , but mandatory . each licence must spell out the licensee ' s maximum liability . this be an essential risk management mechanism and it mean that company know exactly what they be sign up for . it also allow they to secure insurance in a predictable way . in the construction sector , we have a lot of unpredictable insurance post - Grenfell and particularly post - industrial shock , so I know how , for a commercial business , insecure insurance and unpredictability of insurance be important . the Government ' s new industrial strategy be really positive for the space sector . in my constituency , the Bill will stimulate job and growth . it specifically recognise that the Government will be invest in research and development for the space industry through the Cambridge Growth Company , which will drive new opportunity for my constituent . when we consider this issue , we must also remember the wide stake . I be enjoy my hon . friend ' s speech on space . I must declare that I prefer to have my foot firmly on planet Earth , but none the less I be enjoy his contribution . I have be advise that man be from Mars and woman be from Venus . where do my hon . friend think those on the second Opposition Bench be from ? I be sure they be work hard in their constituency right now . where they be from , not where they be . where they be from , I do not know , but I be sure they be work hard in their constituency right now . I will keep the collegiate relationship we have here today , but I thank my hon . friend for that comment . I be talk about international impact . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on international trade and investment , I think the Bill be a very positive step forward to help drive investment . as we see country such as the US , Luxembourg , Australia and Japan change their regulatory regime , we need to keep that front and centre . I do say I would briefly mention the civil economy , as we have a Minister from the Department here today . regulatory certainty matter . I see that the sustainable Aviation Fuel Bill be come forward , but I note that the fuel strategy be also very important . one in five of my constituent work in logistic , so it be critical that we see certainty in all sector of the Department for Transport . I will conclude by say this . space be no long the preserve of big Government agency alone . we see a lot of innovation . as my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) say in relation to her constituency , there be fierce commercial competition and a lot of opportunity . the Bill will ensure that , whether we be explore near space , planet , exoplanet , exomoon or even go out far into space , we support the british economy and get the space industry grow . I will try to keep my remark brief . I start by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) on make many fine contribution today and still manage to find time to pass his own Bill . this be an area of personal interest to I . I make the terrible choice 20 year ago to go into politic , but most of my family be scientist . my grandfather be Professor Sir Robert Boyd , who be often describe as the father of british space science . my dad still work in the sector . the pace at which the industry be progress be quite remarkable . when SpaceX and Virgin Galactic first come out , I think to myself , " how on earth be these company go to make any money at all ? " but they could certainly see the future in all of this . as have be set out , the opportunity present by space be vast , and legislation need to keep pace . ultimately , it be a question of risk . risk will always be part of the process , as it be in every part of life . it be perfectly possible to manage it in a way that make it viable to undertake various activity . the Bill , in its four word , set out to resolve that , address liability and insurance issue to enable the viability of the UK ' s space industry , which surely will be see as a vital area of economic growth in time to follow , and of national security , as have be discuss . no doubt , the discussion of risk may arouse concern from the general public , but for the average person , the risk be vanishingly low . Most object send up into space be far too small to survive re - entry . frankly , huge satellite pose a far great risk to each other now , through what be know as Kessler syndrome , where one knock into another and that set off a cascade that destroy all the satellite in low orbit , make they completely unusable . the risk of an individual be hit by space debris be less than one in a trillion . rocket can blow up — they be very similar to missile — but they tend to be limit to a small range of place , which consistently be remote , and follow a path unlikely to pose a risk to people ' s property . the industry have to have an approach to risk , but from an individual perspective , we should not in any way be worried . as have be highlight , the Civil Aviation Authority , which happen to be base in my constituency , play a significant role in that . it do fine work in this area , in addition to general aviation . the Bill manage these risk well . it be a vital part of how to deliver an economy of the future for the UK , and I be delighted to support it . I call the shadow Minister . it be a great pleasure to speak again on the Bill . it be a short Bill — it replace just two word — but one with substantial implication . the meat of the Bill , if I can call it that , be to replace " may " with " must " . I will briefly refer to some of the excellent contribution . I be relieve to have hear many few revolting pun than in previous debate on this subject ; nevertheless , a couple slip through . I start with the sponsor of the Bill , the hon . member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) , who set out the commercial need for the change to the Act . he make the sensible point that government policy be easy to change than statute . if we be not sure of that before this week , one should just ask the Prime Minister and the Chancellor of the Exchequer to understand that it be easy to change policy than it be to change legislation . my hon . friend the Member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) be the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for space , which make he eminently well - qualified to speak in this debate . I be ponder my own qualification , and the good I could come up with be that I play rugby for a team call the Space Cadets when I be at university . that be about as close as I could get to the space industry . my hon . Friend rightly make the case for a role for the City of London . he mention develop opportunity for Lloyds of London , listing , bond issuance and subsequent legal support . the hon . member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) highlight the role of Portsmouth and the wide Hampshire space cluster . she say that it be just four word that need to be change — in that sentence , she double the size of the Bill . the hon . member for Northampton South ( Mike Reader ) reflect on space development in the context of defence , and on commercial opportunity be hold back because of regulatory uncertainty . he be right to highlight that regulatory certainty matter . finally , the hon . member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) say he be the grandson of the father of british space science , which presumably make he the son of british space science . we can not complain about inadequate consideration of the Bill . the first attempt to enact the change be introduce by the former Member for Woking , Jonathan Lord , and we have a second reading of a very similarly word Bill on 23 February 2024 . unfortunately , that Bill be lose in the parliamentary wash - up session , as a result of the general election be call later that year . I be pleased that the incoming Government have , through their inspirational Back Benchers , be able to introduce a private member ' s Bill in very similar term . second reading be quite a long time ago — back on 7 March this year — but since then , the Bill have be through Committee and undergone robust line - by - line consideration . I be pleased to report to the House that the word " must " have not be alter in Committee . I wonder whether " definitely should " or " really ought " be posit by member , but , in the end , we have the same wording as on Second Reading . we now come to the remain stage , no doubt to an enormous sigh of relief from the industry , and perhaps a little bit of frustration about why it have take so long to change just two word in an Act that receive Royal Assent back in 2018 . as a personal observation , I question whether the private Member ' s Bill route be appropriate for legislation that have such significant commercial impact . the industry have be wait . we have hear from speaker after speaker about the commercial importance of change " may " to " must " , and yet it have take seven year from identify the original problem to effect a solution . we need to really think about that , because this Bill be important and delay have have a cost . the UK space industry generate £ 18 . 9 billion for our economy . there be at least 1 , 800 business involve in it , some 52 , 000 job be directly employ by the space industry and , with the supply chain , that number increase to 130 , 000 . no doubt , those figure be out of date as it be a grow industry . we have strong demand for UK commercial spaceflight that lead to the original regulatory benefit , arise out of our Brexit freedom , to have a dynamic regulatory environment . it have give we a genuine economic commercial advantage over our european friend and neighbour , because we have be able to have a more dynamic approach to regulation . however , that have be put at risk because of the difficulty in calculate potential liability . other have already go through the legal nicety of the Space Industry Act 2018 , so I do not propose to go through those line by line as I would normally . suffice it to say , the legal duty of a space operator be to provide insurance for their operation , and that be require under the Act . that bring a corollary obligation to make a calculation to potential exposure . if someone be make an actuarial calculation of the risk to which a client be expose an insurer , they need to undertake a calculation of the scale — the quantum — of that risk . this be where the regulatory uncertainty have play its part . although it have be repeat in this Chamber and elsewhere that it be , and remain , government policy to have an indemnity beyond a certain level of liability , the uncertainty be that the legislation do not require the Government to do that . section 12 ( 2 ) give the Civil Aviation Authority — the regulatory authority in this case — power to set an upper limit to provide clarity . this Bill turn that power into an obligation , which be quite right . we have have a fun debate and I be very pleased that the legislation be near the end of its legislative journey , but we collectively need to stop and think . this be an uncontroversial change , with cross - party support , support a growth industry , and yet it have take five month to progress from Second reading to the remain stage . that be simply not good enough . we collectively need to think of a way in which we can get this kind of legislation accelerate . launch into space be never straightforward , and this Bill be no exception . it have an initial flare - out on its launchpad before the last general election , and since then it have have an excruciatingly slow reconstruction and review . but it be finally ready for launch , and I wish it well . I hope it release many further launch across the United Kingdom . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) for promote this short but important Bill . I want to get far into Newcastle United ' s Inter - Cities Fairs cup win in 1969 , but I do not think today be the day . I thank all who have contribute to the debate . I thank the hon . member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) for his chairmanship of the APPG for space . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) , for Northampton South ( Mike Reader ) and for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) . I thank the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) , for his support as well . he mention pun — I attempt a pun in the House the other day , and Mr Speaker remind I to stick to the day job . I will not try to emulate my hon . friend the Member for Northampton South . this industry be so important , and it will be go forward . it have already be say that it contribute £ 19 billion to the UK economy , and it be already employ 52 , 000 people right across our land . I be pleased to confirm that the Bill have the Government ' s full support . we have economic growth at the heart of our agenda , and we be take step to support major infrastructure and to reduce bureaucratic red tape in regulatory framework to well support innovation and growth in the UK . the Minister talk about economic growth . I recently meet a mongolian lady work at the Satellite Applications Catapult , which exist to grow the UK space sector . we have hear about Buzz Aldrin and Buzz Lightyear — I be afraid I have a pun come . with that in mind , will the Minister set out in further detail , perhaps at the Dispatch Box now , how he foresee the Bill give the space sector the rocket booster it need to go to infinity and beyond ? today be 4 July and there will be firework across the pond , but we want rocket booster under our space industry . Most of Europe be landlocke — or I should say space - locked — which provide the UK with a unique opportunity to be a launchpad for satellite produce all around Europe . that be the market that we be go for . the industry have make it clear that hold unlimited liability will have an adverse effect on the UK spaceflight industry . if the Government do not limit a spaceflight operator ' s liability , spaceflight company and investor might move to jurisdiction that have more favourable liability regime where operator liability be limited , or that provide guarantee to meet all claim or those above the operator ' s limit of liability , such as the US or France . for those reason , we be pleased to support the Bill . with the leave of the House , I call John Grady to wind up . I will keep my remark short . I thank all member for their support today , on Second Reading and in Committee . I also thank the Department for Transport civil servant who assist I . the Clerk of private member ' bill put in a lot of work to help we all with our private member ' Bills , and I give thank to they as well . this Bill will now go to another place , where Baroness Anelay of St Johns have kindly agree to take it on , and I thank she for so do . I should also thank the hon . member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) , who have be nothing but enthusiastic about this Bill from the off . it be good to hear enthusiasm , and speak as a new member — or a year - old member — it be always very helpful to have advice from member from across the Chamber . of course , I thank my team for their help with the Bill . I thank you for your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I also thank the voter and resident of Glasgow East , because it be a privilege to be here represent they . I love every minute of my time represent my seat . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Licensing Hours Extensions Bill Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee , consider . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . the Licensing Hours Extensions Bill , propose by my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) , be about cut red tape and unnecessary and time - consume bureaucracy for the hospitality industry and local authority when they simply want to open early or stay open later on occasion of special importance . the Bill will amend the Licensing Act 2003 to allow licensing extension to be make more quickly and simply . furthermore , it will make it possible to extend licensing hour for noteworthy event at short notice , even when Parliament be not sit . such decision will be consider on a case - by - case basis , and extension will be use as and when be deem appropriate by the Government , with the criterion for make such an extension remain unchanged , and the power rest with the Home Secretary . the Bill will make a very simple alteration to the Licensing Act 2003 , so that the negative procedure be use and the requirement for debate be remove , though member can still pray against an extension if they wish . that will allow extension to license hour to be process without use up valuable parliamentary time — something I be certain you would approve of , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be extremely welcome that there have be broad support and consensus across the House for this measure . whether that say something about parliamentarian and pint , I could not possibly say . the negative procedure also have the benefit of allow licensing extension to be make in the rare event that they be need during parliamentary recess or at short notice . follow the affirmative procedure be problematic when an order need to be make at short notice , as we have see in the past — for example , at the time of the woman ' s world cup in 2023 . this summer , the woman ' s club world cup come to Northampton . if it be in another country , this legislation would be critical , because I be sure that many want to see the England woman ' s rugby team play , as they will do at Franklin ' s Gardens . do my hon . friend agree that , as we see more interest in sport , particularly woman ' s sport , it be critical that the Government have the ability to change licensing hour without the affirmative procedure ? my hon . friend be absolutely correct : this be vital legislation . it be wholly appropriate to make this alteration in order to permit swift change to licensing hour as necessary . this move will ensure that there will be no such limitation in the future , and that any hospitality venue will have the option of take advantage of an extension issue by the Home Secretary . special occasion such as world cup , european championship and royal wedding live long in all our memory , even if we be enjoy the hospitality so enable . it be only right that our pub and hospitality venue be give the opportunity to be a part of the experience on those occasion . my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham and I hope that the Bill will pass today , and will do exactly what it say on the tin , especially on this day of celebration , one year on from the general election . as the Member of Parliament for Portsmouth North , I be proud to speak in support of the Licensing Hours Extensions Bill , which be a sensible and necessary reform to support our struggle hospitality sector and , as we have hear , allow community to come together during moment of national significance . the Bill give the Government the power to extend licensing hour across the country for key event , such as royal celebration , national sporting victory and commemorative day , without the need for venue to go through costly and time - consume individual application . for Portsmouth North , this be more than just a technical measure — it be a lifeline . across area such as North End , Drayton , Cosham and Hilsea , we have see much - love venue close their door in recent year , yet some still stand strong at the heart of our community . pub such as the Harvest home in Copnor , the George in Cosham , the Drayton Tavern in Drayton and the Cross Keys in Paulsgrove , where my mum and dad meet , have fight to keep go , despite increase pressure from rise cost , staff shortage and regulatory burden . for many of these venue , the opportunity to stay open later during special event without additional red tape could mean the difference between a profitable night and another loss . I want to highlight the role of casemate Studios in Hilsea . although primarily a creative space , it support a range of community event , music gig and social gathering . more flexible licensing arrangement will allow place like casemate to well host local talent and public event tie to national occasion , without the financial or bureaucratic strain that often put they off even try . this Bill support exactly that kind of local , community - lead vibrancy . have speak with business owner across my constituency , I know how hard they have work to stay afloat . the Licensing Hours Extensions Bill remove an unnecessary hurdle . it simplify the process , reduce cost , and give our hospitality business a fair shot at success when it matter most — on those big night when our country be celebrate . let I be clear : this be not about hand out licence indiscriminately . the Bill rightly ensure that local authority and the police be consult before any national extension be grant , mean that resident will still be protect from antisocial behaviour and decision will reflect the need of the whole community . Portsmouth North ' s pub and venue be not just business — they be place where people gather , celebrate , mark milestone and find connection . this Bill give they a boost at a time when many be struggle to keep the light on . I be pleased to support the Bill , and urge colleague across the House to do the same for the sake of our local economy , our community spirit and the future of our british pub . as our Lionesses begin their Euros campaign , I wish they our very good . I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful to the hon . member for Watford ( Matt Turmaine ) for bring forward this private Member ' s Bill , alongside the hon . member for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) , and I be pleased to confirm that the conservative party support the measure . it be legislation that the previous Conservative Government support , and we welcome its return to the House . the Bill change section 197 of the Licensing Act 2003 , move licensing hour order from the affirmative to the negative procedure . as we have hear , this will save precious parliamentary time while maintain full democratic accountability through the prayer procedure , which allow member to object within 40 day . the hospitality sector be vital to local economy throughout the United Kingdom . from rural pub to city centre hotel , these business need the flexibility to serve their community during national celebration . when his Majesty the King be crown in 2023 , establishment across the country want to mark that historic occasion . the current process make it unnecessarily difficult to respond to such moment of national significance . since 2003 , this power have be use sparingly for national event ; every single order have have to pass through Parliament , and have do so unopposed . public consultation also show strong support , with 77 % back the coronation extension to licence in 2023 . when this Bill have its Second reading , I put it to the Minister who be respond then , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , that this be a rather puny measure , and that there be a strong case for deregulate this whole area , and for get Parliament and the Government out of the hospitality sector ' s hair in relation to licensing hour . do my hon . friend agree that this Bill be far too limited a measure ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . of course , we should all strive for deregulation , and would like more of it all the time . that be probably a bit too much to take on within the very small confine of this private Member ' s Bill , but it be certainly something we should strive for , in order to help business across the country , and definitely something I would look at . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way again . will she also include within her inquiry , and her thought about ambition , some more control over the negative procedure ? the hon . member for Watford ( Matt Turmaine ) , who introduce the Bill today , assert that anybody who be against an order pass under the negative procedure would be able to pray against it , but the opportunity to ensure that a prayer result in a debate be almost non - existent . that be a theoretical , rather than practical , constraint . one of the issue I have be try to raise be — order . Sir Christopher be a parliamentarian with enough experience to know that that be a very , very long intervention . he have be here from the start ; he could have choose to contribute in the debate . I thank my hon . friend for the intervention . this be clearly an area that he be very passionate about . if these proposal progress , I be sure that he will be able to feed into they well . we have be hear about the affirmative procedure versus the negative procedure . the affirmative procedure have prove particularly cumbersome when unexpected event arise . when our Lionesses reach the world cup final with just four day ' notice , as we have hear , the parliamentary process nearly prevent community from come together to celebrate . even my community in Scotland would have have the opportunity to do so , if they have be in the same situation . move to the negative procedure would allow the Government to respond swiftly to such moment , while maintain parliamentary oversight . this change do not weaken democratic oversight at all ; it simply make the process more efficient . the Secretary of State must still consult appropriately under section 172 , and public consultation will continue . as we have hear , any Member of either House retain the right to table a prayer motion for the annulment of the order , and judicial review remain available . the benefit be clear . parliamentary time spend on uncontested order can be reallocate to generally contentious matter . by make small , sensible change like this , we free up valuable time to debate critical issue face our country , such as secure our energy supply , support rural and coastal community , tackle neighbourhood crime and hold this government to account . the conservative party be and always will be the party of business . we understand that the ability to open for long during national celebration can provide a significant and welcome boost of energy and income to our pub , bar , restaurant and high street . this Bill facilitate that in a more efficient manner . we support the Bill because it be a common - sense , practical measure that continue to champion the work we do in government , and because it will help business and community across all our constituency . in conclusion , as this be a thoroughly logical piece of legislation , which remove unnecessary procedural step and allow the House to well focus on its primary responsibility , we support it and commend it to the House . I rise to speak only because I be not able to complete my intervention ; as you rightly say , Madam Deputy Speaker , it be get very long . the point I want to make in my short contribution to this debate be that it be because of the lack of flexibility in the negative procedure that we find ourselves have to discuss the matter on Third Reading today . if the House have the ability to amend statutory instrument , and have a guarantee , more or less , that if there be an objection to an order make under the negative procedure , it could be the subject of debate , there would be less concern about order be subject to the negative procedure , rather than the affirmative procedure . this Bill have be drag through this House at great length . I do not quite understand the explanation for that . under the Bill , in the narrow context of a sporting event take place that result in the need for a celebration that there have not be notice of at a time when the House be sit — accord to the Bill ' s sponsor , it would be relevant only in such circumstance — the Government could allow a licensing extension . claim to move the closure ( Standing Order no . 36 ) . as we have not yet hear from the Minister , I be not prepared to take a closure motion at this time . in the light of the number of people who vote at 9 . 35 am , I think it be highly unlikely that any closure motion could be carry , because it would need 100 member to support it . I have be speak for only two or three minute . I know the hon . member for Newton Abbot ( Martin Wrigley ) be keen to get on and discuss his Bill , which I know the Government wish to talk out — I be a little bit perplexed about that . the negative resolution procedure would be necessary only in an emergency . I be quite tempt to extend my remark , because the hon . member for Watford ( Matt Turmaine ) try to link the content of the Bill with today ' s first anniversary of the election of what I think be undeniably the bad Government this country have ever experience . would we really have want to celebrate that in the pub ? last night , I be commiserate with a group of Conservatives in a London constituency about what have happen over the last year , and explain to they that they should take courage from the fact that at least we be 20 % of the way through this ghastly government . my remark be entirely orient around the suggestion that those wish to celebrate would be able to do so . no compulsion to do so be intend . I be so relieved to hear that . as a believer in freedom and choice , I think people should have the chance to go to the pub either to celebrate or to commiserate . I share the desire of the hon . Gentleman and many other in this House to promote the hospitality industry . there seem to be some evidence that a lot more young people be come back to drink and celebrate in pub , and long may that continue . in my constituency , as in many other , far too many good pub and other hospitality venue have close down , not least because of the Government ' s imposition of extra employer ' national insurance and increase in the national minimum wage . although the Government will probably take credit for allow this Bill — this very modest measure — to go through , it need to be put in perspective . at the same time , they have be the author of a whole lot of measure that have be very bad news for the hospitality industry across the country , and in Christchurch in particular . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Watford ( Matt Turmaine ) and to other who speak in the debate , include my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) , for their contribution . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Watford for speak on behalf of my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) , who introduce the Bill , and I be grateful to be speak on behalf of the Minister for Policing and Crime Prevention , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . throughout proceeding on the Bill , there have be a high degree of consensus on the measure it contain , and I be pleased to say that the Government fully support it . I recognise the depth of experience that my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham bring to it , with his 25 - plus year in the hospitality sector . rightly , the Bill support the sector , which be responsible for around 2 . 6 million job in our country and be an important part of our local and national economy . as my hon . friend the Member for Watford explain , section 172 of the Licensing Act 2003 make provision for the Secretary of State to make an order that relax license hour in England and Wales on an occasion of exceptional international , national or local significance . in practice , the Home Secretary determine whether an occasion meet the criterion on a case - by - case basis , and any order that be bring forward must specify the date and time of the relaxation . such order benefit business , which can stay open for long ; community , which can come together to celebrate important event ; and licensing authority , which do not have to process a large number of individual licence extension . of course , it be still for individual business to decide whether they wish to take advantage of any extension , but if business do wish to stay open , a blanket licensing extension mean that individual business do not have to give a temporary event notice to their local authority , save they time as well as the associate fee . the Bill will amend the Licensing Act 2003 so that relaxation order can be make via the negative resolution procedure , rather than the current affirmative procedure . in the past , we have relax licensing hour for high - profile royal event , such as her late Majesty the Queen ' s platinum jubilee and the coronation of his Majesty the King ; other event of significant national importance , such as the recent celebration on the 80th anniversary of VE Day ; and major sporting event , include the final of the man ' s european championship football tournament in 2020 and 2024 , and the woman ' s european championship this summer . let I summarise the benefit of change the procedure . first , by remove the need for business to submit individual temporary event notice and , subsequently , for local authority to work tirelessly in process they , we will reduce the burden place on those organisation . hospitality venue will also have one few administrative task to process as they prepare for event . secondly , as I have previously mention , a more practical reason for make this change be that , as well as be use for royal occasion — for which there be plenty of notice — licensing extension can be use when one of our national football team make it to the final of a tournament . give the nature of how these competition play out , there be very little time between the team qualify for a key match and the match take place . in the summer of 2021 , the England man ' s team make it to the final of the delay Euro 2020 tournament ; thankfully , with the help of colleague of different party , we be able to swiftly put an order in place in the three day between the semi - final and the final . in the summer of 2023 , however , the England woman ' s team reach the final of the World cup , which take place when Parliament be in recess . as such , it be not possible to extend licensing hour . change the process to the negative procedure will mean that an order can be make when Parliament be in recess , so that we can avoid such a situation arise again . history have show that there be clearly cross - party support for this measure , which be important to colleague on both side of the House . have outline the benefit of be able to make order swiftly , I will briefly make some remark about how the Government will consider what need to be in place when use the power . we be clear that the Government must continue to plan ahead so that , wherever possible , license hour extension order can be make in time for prior public consultation . it be also important to make it clear that the police have generally be supportive of extension for royal event , and that no noticeable issue have be attribute to extended drinking hour . indeed , many people might like to drink non - alcoholic beverage , which be available in almost all pub and restaurant across the country . the Government recognise the importance of provide the police with ample time to put in place any additional police measure that may be necessary to prevent an increase in crime or disorder in our community , and we make sure that their view on these matter be hear in advance . to that end , the Government remain firmly committed to continue to plan in advance wherever possible . the power in section 172 of the Licensing Act have be use sparingly , and rightly so . as the statutory guidance that accompany the Licensing Act set out , it should normally be possible for those apply for premise licence to anticipate special occasion . the change will apply to England and Wales only . I once again thank my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham and other who have speak in support of this important new measure . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . company Directors ( Duties ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . under current UK law , company director have one override duty : to maximise shareholder interest . this narrow , outdated legal framework of shareholder primacy have create a culture in which short - term financial performance override long - term sustainability . the Bill will amend section 172 of the Companies Act to change the duty of company director by require they to balance the need of shareholder with those of employee and the environment , thereby build well and more sustainable business . the Institute of Directors back this change , which will empower director to do the right thing for their business . it will drive the sustainable growth need to turbocharge our economy and help to realise the Government ' s ambition for growth . the Bill give director the legal clarity and freedom to make well , long - term decision , move away from the short - term drive of a quarter ' s profit . business focus on their stakeholder , not solely on shareholder return , consistently outperform their counterpart . last year , UK B corps increase their turnover by 23 % , compare with the national average of 17 % , and they see a 9 . 6 % increase in employee headcount , compare with a national decrease of 0 . 5 % . moreover , research conduct by Demos on behalf of the Better Business Act highlight that a purpose - lead economy would boost UK gdp by £ 149 billion . it be clear that embrace stakeholder primacy improve financial performance . the law should encourage this , not obstruct it . it be time to change the law to follow the example of the thousand of business and organisation that have see that well business work well . with this change , we can help to build well business and a well Britain . I congratulate the hon . member for Newton Abbot ( Martin Wrigley ) on introduce the Bill and on squeeze in his remark under the wire . he make some important observation . clearly , we do not have the time we would like to explore the provision in more detail , but I understand that I will be engage with he — rise — I may have anticipate the hon . member ' s intervention ; I will be engage with he shortly on the Bill ' s provision . it be not a Bill that the Government will be able to support , but I do want to have further conversation with he about it . it be important that we recognise director ’ duty for what they be : a cornerstone of UK company law . they help to ensure that company be run responsibly and , importantly , that director act with integrity at all time . we be really talk about section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 , which the Bill seek to amend . that be a key part of the director ’ duty framework , which be develop in the light of the major company law review commission by the previous Labour Government . I want to be clear that section 172 as it stand already place a legal duty on director to have regard in their decision making to the interest of employee and the impact of the company ' s operation on the community and the environment . it also require director to consider a range of other factor , include the impact of any decision on the long - term success of the company . the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 12 September . business without Debate Regulatory Impact assessment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . Strategic Litigation against Public Participation Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 5 December . sale of Tickets ( Sporting and Cultural Events ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . Horticultural Peat ( prohibition of Sale ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . woman ' s State Pension Age ( Ombudsman Report and Compensation Scheme ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . theft of Tools of Trade ( Sentencing ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 31 October . Quantitative Easing ( prohibition ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . river , Streams and Lakes ( Protected Status ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . Gaza ( Independent Public Inquiry ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . support for Infants and Parents etc ( information ) Bill [ Lords ] Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . Domestic Building Works ( Consumer Protection ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . Multi - Storey Car Parks ( Safety ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . Animal Shelters ( Licensing ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . Health Insurance ( Exemption from Insurance Premium Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 9 January 2026 . Green Belt ( Protection ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 January 2026 . Green Spaces Bill Resumption of adjourned debate on question ( 7 March ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . exemption from Value Added Tax ( Public Electric Vehicle Charging Points ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 23 January 2026 . public Sector Exit Payments ( Limitation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 30 January 2026 . meat ( information about Method of Killing ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 6 February 2026 . exemption from Value Added Tax ( list place of worship ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 13 February 2026 . exemption from Value Added Tax ( Miscellaneous Provisions ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 February 2026 . Caravan Site Licensing ( Exemptions of Motor Homes ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 27 February 2026 . arm ' s - Length Bodies ( Review ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 6 March 2026 . Public Health ( Control of Disease ) Act 1984 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 13 March 2026 . Statutory Instruments Act 1946 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 March 2026 . dangerous Dogs Act 1991 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 27 March 2026 . Domestic Energy ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 April 2026 . BBC Licence Fee Non - Payment ( decriminalisation for over - 75 ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 24 April 2026 . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Payments Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 9 January 2026 . Anonymity of Suspects Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 16 January 2026 . child ' s Clothing ( Value Added Tax ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 23 January 2026 . Highways Act 1980 ( Amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 30 January 2026 . british Broadcasting Corporation ( Privatisation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 6 February 2026 . Illegal Immigration ( Offences ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 13 February 2026 . Vaccine Damage Payments Act ( Review ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 February 2026 . NHS England ( Alternative Treatment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 27 February 2026 . Covid - 19 Vaccine Damage Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 6 March 2026 . Mobile Homes Act 1983 ( amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 13 March 2026 . arm ' s - Length Bodies ( accountability to Parliament ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 20 March 2026 . bailiff ( Warrants of Possession ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 27 March 2026 . National Health Service Co - Funding and Co - Payment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 April 2026 . pet ( Microchips ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . immigration and Visas Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . British Indian Ocean Territory ( Sovereignty and Constitutional Arrangements ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 11 July . service for Adults with learn difficulty : Hillingdon Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jeff Smith . ) I rise to discuss service for adult with learn difficulty and disability in Hillingdon . approximately 1 . 3 million people in England have a learn disability . if we include those with learn difficulty , that figure be even high . yet too often our service , education system , NHS , workplace and society as a whole be not inclusive of their need , and they be often see as an afterthought . I be motivate to bring forward this Adjournment debate have recently have the privilege of meet many adult with learn disability and difficulty and their family in the borough of Hillingdon . they express to I that , again , they feel like an afterthought , as they be appal by the council ' s recent decision to close another vital service for adult ; many other service have be close , move or cut in recent year . before turn to the specific important service that have be lose or be under threat , it be important to note that , of course , many good organisation be work hard in challenge circumstance to provide support . in the NHS , the Hillingdon community team for people with learn disability provide specialist support for adult with learn disability in the community and across primary and secondary care . those service , however , be largely around diagnosis and access to medical support — just one aspect of an adult ' s need . dash , a voluntary sector group , offer a range of sporting and recreational activity for people with a disability , all focus on encourage people to socialise , but it too have struggle with decrease funding in recent year . Hillingdon Autistic Care and Support provide an autism hub , advice and social activity for adult in the London borough of Hillingdon , but the slashing of its budget in 2023 lead to the closure of the popular tea room — a caf é open to the public that offer training and work support to adult with autism . unfortunately , that be a sign of even more damaging cut to come . follow those proposal , an e - petition sign by 3 , 330 people call on the council not to withdraw the funding for the tea room . despite that , the council press ahead , claim that 20 people benefit from training and support be not good value for money — a disappointing sign of thing to come , with a council know the price of everything , but the value of nothing . more broadly in the area of education , the Park View centre , part of the Orchard Hill college group near Uxbridge , have a range of on - site vocational opportunity . the college do excellent work in challenge facility that be not purpose - build . I recently have the privilege of meet a number of their learner and staff , and they show I at first hand how much they have to offer our community and workplace . as well as insist I attend their next disco , their overwhelming message be that they love their job coach Holly , but unfortunately , there be only one Holly in the whole of the college . they want more work coach , placement , internship and job coach support . yes , learning be vital , but they want it to lead somewhere in adult life . they want real workplace experience and , ideally , a full - time or part - time role . the Government ' s commitment to invest more than £ 1 billion into workplace support for those with disability be a welcome step forward . I hope that the Department of Health and Social Care and the Department for Work and Pensions will work together to ensure that this investment be also target to help adult with learn difficulty get the support they desperately need . datum suggest that the employment gap for people with a learn disability be still far too wide . of the people access long - term social care , only 5 % of those with a learn disability be in pay work , which be a shame on our society . charity have previously call on the Government to set a new ambitious target for reduce the disability employment gap with strategic action behind it . a previous Secretary of State for Work and Pensions say in March 2023 that he would set a new disability employment goal , but progress have be slow , and I hope the two Departments can work together to progress that . such a gap be why support work placement , centre for training and volunteering be vital . follow the closure of the Hillingdon tea room , another such facility be now under threat . there be a strong community - lead campaign to save the Rural Activities Garden Centre , which provide employment opportunity , skill , lifelong relationship and a connection to our community for adult with learn difficulty across west London . Conservative - lead Hillingdon council take the decision just last week to slash that vital service . I have be shock and sadden to see how the voice of adult with learn difficulty and their family have be silence in this discussion , not even be allow to speak or question the decision at the civic centre . we be now in this Chamber , and we can ensure that their voice and story be hear ; a number of they be in the Gallery with their family . George be 28 . he be separate from his parent at birth due to their inability to care for he at that time . he have spend year unable to eat without a feeding tube and have battle self - harm throughout his life . after decade of struggle for specialist support , four year ago George find something precious : a community at the Rural Activities Garden Centre , where he feel value and understand . since the announcement , and as a result of the fear that that vital support system may be strip away , George ' s challenge have again become overwhelming . Oliver have be attend the RAGC for 10 year and have complex health need . he be partially sight and have severe learn difficulty and chronic kidney disease . more recently , he have suffer from post - traumatic stress disorder . Oliver ' s battle with mental health impact on his ability to do day - to - day task and the usual activity that bring he joy , but one comfort remain : the RAGC . there be also Doug , who I have have the pleasure to meet . he be an adult with learn disability that impact on his ability to read , write and count . where the private sector be unable to provide support to Doug with his additional need , the RAGC see past what he could not do and nurture what he could . it watch he transform from a shy young man into a confident 32 - year - old with purpose . after the closure meeting , Doug ask a simple but heartbreaking question : " where do the staff go ? what happen to I and my mate ? " I be also tell of Georgia ' s story . before join RAGC , she struggle with anxiety and undiagnosed autism , leave she imprisoned in her own home . the garden centre help she to develop skill and build confidence , and she even go on to compete in a wreath - make competition . it be the service now under threat that transform she from someone who could not leave the house to someone who could confidently serve customer — what a transformation . she fear the closure will reignite those same issue that she have work so hard to manage . the difficulty of day - to - day life be often feel more acutely by adult with learn difficulty . it be the sanctuary that place such as the ragc provide that make it imperative we continue to fight for their survival . the Rural Activities Garden Centre make employment opportunity , personal development and skill curation accessible for those who be often isolate . I have meet so many people from right across the community who have volunteer there , gain skill and even move into permanent job as a result . family feel that their loved one be care for , safe and nurture in this space , and it have give carer and family their own ability to have respite and time to care for themselves . I congratulate the hon . member on secure this debate . he will know that the garden centre also provide an essential service to my constituent . I have visit the place for either 20 or 30 year — I be not clear — and it be commend by the former conservative leader of Hillingdon council , who call it a jewel in the crown . that be why it have come as such a shock that this conservative administration be now willing to close it with such brutality . do the hon . Member agree that the council should , even at this late stage , think again and consult properly — include all those volunteer and parent as well as the people who use the centre — to look at a wide range of option ? this do not have to happen now : the council just need to listen to we . I concur completely with my right hon . friend . we have both meet those affect , their love one and their family , and we can really hear and see the value . unfortunately , that value be not consider in the rush decision make by the councillor — I will turn to the lack of consultation very soon , and I completely agree with he about that . it be not too late and , like he , I hope that the council think again . the Rural Activities Garden Centre be another in a long list of closure at the hand of the local council . follow year of financial mismanagement by the leadership , the modus operandi have become to cut through its crisis . while the council ' s cabinet see nothing more than a line on a spreadsheet , behind this move be adult with learn difficulty , whose life have be transform by this service and who risk lose it all as a result of the council ' s decision . by its own admission , it view the decision of the closure through the lens of profit . failure to turn a profit mean inevitable closure to Hillingdon council . that be the reason quote at the recent decision - make meeting , but should social service have to make a profit to survive ? to I , it defeat the objective of those service . by that logic , one wonder what will be cut next by Hillingdon council ? what other social service or school will it have in its sight ? this heartless approach to community service aside , Hillingdon council ' s binary decision making in relation to profit be economically flawed . these service be not cost ; they be investment in the future . the National Audit Office calculate that support someone with moderate learning disability in residential care cost £ 4 . 7 million over their lifetime . with proper community support such as the RAGC , that drop by £ 1 million . we save money while give people the dignity , purpose and independence they deserve . perhaps the council ' s inability to understand this basic economic principle of investment and return shed some light on why it be about to go bankrupt , receive damn report from its own chief financial officer . still , Hillingdon council dismiss the RAGC as merely a " retail service " . tell that to George , Doug , Oliver or Georgia . tell the family who have watch their love one transform from isolation to independence that this be a " retail service " . I recognise that there be similar story across the country , unfortunately , scatter service , break up community and destroy what work for short - term saving that create long - term cost , with our most vulnerable community always the first to feel the brunt . the Rural Activities Garden Centre work . its client thrive . their family be support . the evidence be overwhelming , but evidence mean nothing without political will , and political will mean nothing without adequate funding . we be not ask for the impossible . we be ask the council and this government to back choice and independence for adult with learn difficulty and care package and to recognise that support employment be not a luxury to be cut when time be tough ; it be a vital investment that pay dividend in human dignity and economic return for national and local government . the Rural Activities Garden Centre must be save . service like it across England must be protect . the people who depend on they deserve nothing less than our absolute commitment to their dignity , their potential and their right to belong . I appreciate the Minister give up her time to be here today , with so many press issue across the health and care system . there be some specific issue I hope she will take away for further consideration . first , I and local family would like to welcome the Minister to Hillingdon to meet disabled adult and those with learn difficulty , to hear their experience of a fragmented system and a council and NHS not work together as well as they could and should , which I hope could inform the broad review of social care take place nationally . secondly , the Women and Equalities Committee report in 2023 on inequality for people with learn disability outline clearly that people with a learn disability , and those who care for they , be the real expert when it come to their health and care need . however , aside from the occasional opportunity to feed into consultation , far too often their voice be miss when it come to decision making at both a local and national level . their live experience should be well reflect in effort to reduce health inequality and improve outcome . I hope the Government will look at how they can embed co - production and meaningful engagement in decision making on care package and service and ensure that those with care package and support be genuinely consult and engage in any service change . there must also be clear guidance for provider and commissioner of service about consultation and full equality impact assessment be conduct before service be change , which have be woefully lack in this case . thirdly , the NHS 10 - year plan , launch yesterday , include welcome announcement about support people with health budget , give people personal health plan and a shift to prevention and community - base work for the NHS . will the Minister address whether we can and should expect the same principle to lead work on adult social care support , too ? fourthly , on enable joint working , the Public Accounts Committee report in 2017 , " local support for people with a learn disability " , find that people with a learn disability who live in the community have patchy access to healthcare and limited opportunity to participate in the community — for example , by have a job . while the Department have the policy lead for people with a learn disability and care plan , responsibility for their support span across Government . we even find that to be the case when discuss which Department should respond to this debate . responsibility cross the Department of Health and Social Care , the Department for Education , the Department for Work and Pensions and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government . in its report , the Public Accounts Committee recommend that Government should " set out a cross - government strategy for improve access to health care and opportunity " for adult with learn disability to " participate in the community , include employment , as well as how it will measure the effectiveness of this strategy . " I hope we can return to this in future , because clearly all these department bear some oversight and responsibility for this important group of the population . lastly , I hope the Minister will join I in thank Oliver , Doug , George and Georgia , as well as all the service user and their family , for build this project from scratch , many decade ago , plant the first tree , build the first planter , volunteer to keep it go in difficult time and create this amazing life - change project , and now also for their campaign to fight for its survival . I hope that Hillingdon council will think again , take the time to genuinely listen and get the decision right , work with the community . in the absence of that , I hope the Government will prioritise adult with learn difficulty in service like this one . we be elect a year ago today on a manifesto of change , invest in people , transform life chance and provide everyone with opportunity . these be the thing that the Rural Activities Garden Centre , and so many other service in Hillingdon , have do , and can continue to do , for countless people in the borough of Hillingdon . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) for secure this debate around service in the community for people with a learn difficulty in Hillingdon , and for champion the right of people with learn difficulty in his area . I welcome those in the Gallery who be here to demonstrate how important service for people with learn difficulty in Hillingdon be to they . I join my hon . friend in pay particular tribute to Oliver , Doug , George and Georgia for all their work in this area . I be aware that , as a member of the Health and Social Care Committee , my hon . friend have a keen interest in health and social care matter . he will therefore be pleased to know that the Government have today publish their response to the Health and Social Care Committee report " Adult Social Care Reform : the cost of inaction " . I be sorry to hear that Hillingdon council have decide to close the Rural Activities Garden Centre , but as member know , decision on local service be for council to make since they be well place to understand and meet the need of their local population . I fully appreciate the point that the Minister make , but will she take advice from colleague in other Departments on the follow specific point ? my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) and I have be work with different group and we have seek to register , under relevant legislation , the Rural Activities Garden Centre as a community asset , which would force the local authority to properly consult with we and to engage with the wide community . the council be go ahead with the decision to sell or close in advance of even consider whether it should be a community asset . will she help we by take advice , from whichever Department be relevant , about whether or not there be anything we can do , as a Government , to ensure that Hillingdon council abide by the legislation that be pass to protect community asset such as this one ? I will ensure that that issue be raise with the relevant Department . I will say a little more about some of the expectation we place on local authority to shape their care market to meet the diverse need of all local people , as require under the Care Act 2014 . this Government recognise the vital importance of co - production and work with people who draw on care and support . to ensure local authority be meet these duty , the Care Quality Commission be assess local adult social care service by publish a full report and overall performance rating for each local authority . Hillingdon have be rate as " Good " in the CQC ' s recent assessment , but the report also include feedback on area where the CQC conclude that Hillingdon could improve . it be great to be have this discussion today , on the last day of co - production Week , an important annual awareness campaign to recognise the benefit of work in equal partnership with people use health and social care provision . local council should absolutely involve , engage and consult adult with learn difficulty on their care plan , as well as on wide decision that affect their care and support , and their life in general . we be committed to encourage genuine co - production between social care professional , local authority , policymaker and , crucially , people who draw on care and support , to design a system that work well for everyone — one that be fair , inclusive and put people first . the Government recognise that investment in local service in the community be vital . that be why we have make available over £ 69 billion for local government this financial year , increase core spending power by up to 6 . 8 % in cash term on last year . for Hillingdon , that mean a total of £ 266 . 3 million in its core spending power for this year , an increase of 6 . 2 % on 2024 - 25 . we strongly encourage council to apply element of good market - shape practice involve provider . my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip talk about how people with learning disability should be work with across the Government , but actually that apply to all Government , because we seek to serve the people and that include people with learn disability . yesterday , we publish our 10 - year plan . I be delighted that social care will , for some people , be a key part of the neighbourhood health service we discuss , but the adult social care system be in need of wide reform . we have already begin that journey , include legislate for a fair pay agreement and the independent commission into social care . over time , the neighbourhood health service and the national care service will work hand - in - hand with each other to help people stay well and live independently . to conclude , I note my hon . friend ' s invitation to visit Hillingdon and I will ensure that that invitation be extend to the relevant Minister . I once again thank he for bring forward this important debate , and every member who have contribute . I hope that Hillingdon council take notice of this debate . question put and agree to . House adjourn .