I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I want to raise a few issue , all of which I know be very much on my constituent ' mind . first , I want to emphasise the importance of ensure that borough such as Reigate and Banstead , which have be manage well and be not load with debt , be not leave foot the bill for the failure of other council that have be less prudent with their finance . Reigate and Banstead borough council have a commendably strong record of financial prudence , so please will the Secretary of State reassure my constituent that protection will be put in place to safeguard our community asset , such as the Harlequin theatre , and our community and leisure centre ? on the Harlequin theatre specifically , I emphasise how important the asset be to the people of redhill and beyond . it have now be close for more than two year , follow the discovery of RAAC , and resident and community group — notably , the Harlequin Support Group — have be resolutely campaign for its repair and reopen . I be delighted that , under the leadership of Councillor Shelly Newton , who be one of the most tenacious local councillor I have ever come across , it have now be confirm that the £ 4 . 5 million need for repair have be allocate . all be well , the theatre be expect to reopen by Christmas 2026 . I mention that because my constituent would appreciate hear directly from the Secretary of State and Ministers that the local government reorganisation will not hamper such project , which have be agree but will take some time to complete . I also make the point that the reorganisation be not the only challenge face by Reigate and Banstead borough council , which have just have its housing target more than double by this Government , at a time of great uncertainty and transition — a recipe for disaster . I want to focus mainly , however , on the future of the civic mayoralty in Reigate and Banstead . Reigate have have a mayor since 1863 . great history and tradition be associate with the role , and the importance place on it can be see physically in the mayoral robe , the chain of office and the mace , which be still very much in use . the Government have be clear that their intention with the Bill be to provide a consistent model for how local government will be structure across England . what be rather less clear — I hope that the Minister or Secretary of State will be able to provide clarity — be what that mean for borough such as mine , where a borough council be intermeshe with a long - stand tradition of civic leadership in the form of a borough mayor . unlike metro mayor , the mayor of the borough of Reigate and Banstead be no kind of political executive . the role be that of a civic figurehead , non - partisan , ceremonial and community focus . we have a truly outstanding mayor , Councillor Rich Michalowski , and , before he , Councillor Eddie Hughes be another dedicated and hard - work public servant . in the past civic year alone , the mayor respond to more than 350 engagement request , host 25 town hall tour for school and community group , and oversee 32 civic and charity event attend by nearly 1 , 500 people , not include the thousand more who attend Remembrance Sunday . the position of borough mayor do real , practical good . their attendance at an event bring that extra sparkle , which resident so appreciate . through the mayor ' s trust fund , 38 family in my constituency have already be support with grant this year . a single funding workshop lead by the mayor ' s team unlock more than £ 50 , 000 for local charity . through sustained community engagement , the mayor help connect employer with jobseeker , donor with good cause , and school with mentor . they promote local artist , support care home , champion the armed force covenant , and offer practical help to resident in crisis . I hope that Ministers will agree with my constituent in recognise the great value of a borough mayor , and that they will provide clarity on whether such role will be preserve under the Bill and , if so , how in practical term that will be achieve .