Oral Answers to Questions Science , Innovation and Technology the Secretary of State be ask — Digital Exclusion : Na h - Eileanan an Iar what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to reduce digital exclusion in Na h - Eileanan an Iar constituency . welcome , Secretary of State . thank you , Mr Speaker . I hope the House will bear with I , as I fear I may be lose my voice . some people may be happy about that , but I will attempt to get through as well I can . this Government be determined to ensure that everyone have access to the skill , support and confidence they need to take part in a modern digital society , wherever they live and whatever their circumstance . this be a hugely important issue in my hon . friend ' s constituency , which I believe have one of the low level — if not the low level — of broadband coverage in the country . build Digital UK recently sign a £ 157 million contract to deliver broadband across the Western Isles , include in my hon . friend ' s constituency . he be determined to make sure this happen as an urgent priority , as be I . I welcome the Secretary of State and her friendly - faced team to their post . I also welcome the million go into Project Gigabit . however , that money be find its way into Openreach ' s coffer but not to the end of the road in the Western Isles . I have many constituent , include two in my own village of Swordale , who have build their home and have all the utility except broadband . the cabinet be just a couple of hundred metre away , but why should openreach throw the switch ? it have make million from installation down the spine of the island , but it be not go the last few yard . can the Secretary of State press Openreach to go those last few yard and look at the physical infrastructure access cost that other provider have to pay for legacy like copper wiring and wooden pole from another era ? I thank my hon . friend for his passion about this issue . he should come in and talk to Ministers , official and Building Digital UK to set out what he think need to happen , because we be only go to get this right if we work with people on the ground . the Western Isles contract will provide cover for 65 , 000 new premise across the area , include 8 , 000 in my hon . friend ' s constituency . we have to do this — we have to push far and fast — and I be sure my hon . friend will make it happen on the ground . rise — I presume there be a constituency link . on behalf of my party , I welcome the Secretary of State to her place . on the other side of the highland in the royal burgh of Cromarty — it be an adjacent seat , Mr Speaker — we have an appalling situation . I have in my constituency an old lady with a heart condition who have no means of communication whatsoever for day on end . will the Secretary of State have a word in the right ear to sort out this desperate situation ? if the hon . Gentleman send we the detail , we will make that issue a top priority . as we build the country of the future through job , growth and transform public service , we can not deliver for everybody in every part of the country unless they have the broadband coverage they need . three of the seven new contract that BDUK have sign this year be in Scotland , with funding of — I believe — £ 287 million . we want value for money , and the hon . Gentleman want to deliver for his constituent . together , we will make it happen . Online Safety Act 2023 : effectiveness what assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the Online Safety Act 2023 in reduce child ' s exposure to harmful online content . what assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the Online Safety Act 2023 in reduce child ' s exposure to harmful online content . protect child from harmful content online be a top priority for this Government and for I personally , because it be a deeply concern issue for parent and child across the country . since implement the Online Safety Act this summer , 6 , 000 site have take action to stop child see harmful content online , but I will be pay close attention to what be work and will not hesitate to go far if necessary . indeed , on Monday I add self - harm material to the list of priority offence in the Act , so if company do not take down content that promote self - harm or actively stop it appear , they will face enforcement action . I hope this show the House my determination to take all necessary step on this issue . it be so gratifying to see a Watfordian at the Dispatch Box . in my constituency of Watford , parent and family be rightly pleased with the protection be afford to child and vulnerable people through the Online Safety Act 2023 . we would not allow a child to get into a car and drive down the road , to go into an off - licence and buy tobacco or alcohol product , or to go into an adult entertainment establishment , so do the Secretary of State agree that child and vulnerable people need protection in the virtual world , just as they do in the physical one ? I absolutely agree , and that be why I be determined to do everything necessary to remove illegal content and to protect child from online harm . many year ago , when I be a member of the Science and Technology Committee , as part of a report we be do , I speak to child in secondary and primary school in my constituency to see what they feel be the benefit and difficulty of be online . it be an issue I have be concern about for many year . I be determined to take action , not just for the fabulous people of Watford , but for child and young people right across the country . I also welcome my right hon . friend to her place . do she agree that Reform ' s reckless plan to scrap the Online Safety Act would fail a generation of young people , include all the parent and child in my constituency of Kensington and bayswater who have join my local campaign to protect child online ? yes . if Reform member be so concerned about the Online Safety Act , why be they not here in the Chamber ask I question about it ? reform want to scrap the Act , which would mean rip up protection that crack down on revenge porn , violent misogynistic content , and post encourage self - harm or suicide . I commend my hon . friend on his campaign . family in his constituency want action , and that be what we intend to take . finally , we be put child safety first by take down illegal content , taming toxic algorithm and make age - inappropriate content hard to access . we will go far if we need to . I welcome the new Secretary of State to her position . will she look at the downloading of virtual private network , which allow people to get content from all over the world ? many vpn be base overseas . once they be download , parent have no control whatsoever if their child be then access immoral and illegal content . in the few day that I have be in post , a number of mps and other organisation have already raise this issue with I . I will always be drive by evidence . I want to protect people ' s right to privacy , but I want to make sure that nothing be do that will put people at risk . if the hon . Member have evidence and want to send that to I , I be more than happy to look at it , because I want to take the action require . I have be contact by many constituent worried about the implementation of the Act . for example , Emily , who be home - school and have I , struggle to access thing that help with her learning and her rural isolation . Alexander say that he have access gambling site , but can not access suicide prevention content . as we mark World Suicide Prevention Day , how can we make sure that the Act be a little more nuanced ? I be glad that the hon . Lady have mention that today be World Suicide Prevention Day . anyone who have experience it in relation to their family or friend , or in their constituency , know how devastating it can be . the hon . Lady raise an important issue . from my constituency experience , child and young people want to benefit from all the opportunity and learn they can , but sometimes it be difficult to get it right . it be a complex issue . as a new Secretary of State , I need to get into the detail , but I will always listen . when the evidence be there , I hope to take the appropriate action . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the Secretary of State and the new ministerial team to their place , and thank the former team , who I have very much enjoy spar with over the past few month . in light of the report of the Department ' s plan to review the implementation of the Online Safety Act , can the Secretary of State confirm the scope of that review , include whether it will address the apparent confusion in the medium between the power of the Online Safety Act and the Public Order Act 1986 ? will the review look at age verification to ensure that people ' s data be safe and secure , and that the pass scheme they use be trust ? will it tackle the use of vpn , particularly by child , to get around age verification ? I be always drive by the evidence . we need to see how the Act be be implement and whether and how it work , and that be the absolute priority for I . I will look at any evidence that hon . member provide , but the key thing for I be that we be take action . we have one of the strong protection anywhere in the world , but I be very interested in the issue of addiction in child online and in how behaviour can become addictive . in this very fast - move world , we need to be fleet of foot . I think the truth be that the technology develop much fast than we make legislation , and that be a nut that we have to crack . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I , too , thank the previous ministerial team and welcome the new one — I very much look forward to work together . follow the roll - out of the Online Safety Act , there be evidence that harmful content be still be algorithmically show to young child and that artificial intelligence technology , which have be link to teenage death , be not cover properly in the Act , and concern have be raise about data protection and inappropriately age - gate educational content . we must get the Act right , so will the Secretary of State consider our call for a digital Bill of Rights to set the standard , in order that we can truly adapt to this era of technological change ? we do need to adapt to this age of phenomenal technological development . I have already have a discussion with the chief executive of Ofcom and I intend to meet many other organisation , include those that champion strong protection for child online . the hon . Lady raise the critical issue that we need to protect people ' s privacy , and we need to protect freedom of speech , but we also need to make sure that illegal content , and harmful content for child , be remove . I will leave no stone unturned in deliver on that objective . New Technologies in the Workplace what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help support the adoption of new technology in the workplace . new technology in the workplace can help company become more productive and efficient . in make workplace more accessible so that people can get work and stay in work , it be also good for people . we be support company in a number of way , especially through our industrial strategy , and we have see great example of UK firm adopt tech — artificial intelligence , in particular — ahead of their international peer . we want to do all we can to support company in this area , and I be determined to take action on that . I welcome the Secretary of State to her place . small business in my constituency be vital to economic growth . what be her Department do to ensure that small business can benefit from innovation and new technology ? the hon . Gentleman raise a really important point . my own constituency be dominate by small business , and one issue that they always raise be that we be great at start - up in this country but we need to do more to help those company to scale up . I be new in the job and open to idea , so if the hon . Gentleman and the business in his constituency would like to say what they think they need to help they go from start - up to scale - up , I would be more than happy to listen to they . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I thank the outgoing ministerial team for their engagement as I congratulate the new team on succeed to this important and inspiring brief . the Government be commit to transform public service through the adoption of new technology . at the June spending review , Departments publish their plan to deploy technology to achieve efficiency , but we be yet to see the detailed and fully fund road map for delivery promise by DSIT for this summer . will the Secretary of State commit to publish a road map that set out what will be deliver , who will deliver it and by when , and how much it will cost , before her appearance before my Committee as part of our digital centre of government inquiry in November ? I have a feeling that will be one of the gentler question that my hon . friend ask I over the come month . I be a passionate public service reformer and I believe there be huge potential for technology and AI to deliver well outcome for the people who use service and well value for taxpayer ' money . I will definitely provide she with more detail on the question that she ask , but let I give a fantastic example from my previous role . in our jobcentre in Wales , there be big queue for work coach who be help people do their cv . they use AI , and it be well for the people who use the service and free up the work coach to spend time with the people who most need help . that be a small example ; we have to do more , and I will absolutely commit to set out our further plan . technology company : accountability what step her Department be take to hold technology company accountable for the content on their platform . what step her Department be take to hold technology company accountable for the content on their platform . Minister , welcome . thank you , Mr Speaker . through the Online Safety Act 2023 , platform now have a legal duty to protect user from illegal content and safeguard child from harmful content . Ofcom have strong power to hold firm to account , include fine of up to 10 % of qualify worldwide revenue . Ofcom have make it clear that it will act where platform fall short , and have already launch 12 investigation into suspect non - compliance . I assure my hon . friend that we will continue to review this area carefully and will not hesitate to go far . I welcome the Minister to his position . on World Suicide Prevention Day , I welcome the Government ' s action require online platform to proactively protect user from illegal and harmful content , but charity like the Molly Rose Foundation remain concerned about whether major platform be fully comply with UK regulation , especially on risk assessment . what further step be the Minister take to ensure that Ofcom enforce the law and respond robustly to any breach ? I thank my hon . friend for an important and timely question . it be important because I have be in the room with Ian Russell , the father of Molly Russell , and I have see the tireless resilience with which he and the Molly Rose Foundation have campaign to protect child online . it be a timely question because , in memory of case like Molly Russell ' s , suicide prevention must remain front and centre in our mind . that be precisely why , in the first week of this new ministerial team , the Secretary of State announce that self - harm content be now a priority offence . Ofcom have request risk assessment from over 60 service , include small but high - risk platform , and I know it be actively enforce compliance as well . I welcome the Minister to his place . yesterday , I sponsor a drop - in event here in Parliament with Parent Zone to highlight the " hit pause " campaign , which aim to teach people to recognise conspiracy theory and misinformation online . do the Minister agree that although we can make online platform more accountable in other way , these kind of initiative should be widely available to help equip people with the mean to protect themselves when the tech company fail to take responsibility for the content on their platform ? I be grateful for this chance to put on the record that even when other have put their interest first , my hon . friend have always put Southport above everything . in do so , he have inspire many of we from across the House . medium literacy include critically evaluate information . it be a key skill in help people to be protect from harm online , and I know that the technology company play a crucial role . we welcome collaborative initiative like Parent Zone ' s " hit pause " programme , and I encourage all platform to continue to expand their work to embed medium literacy into their product design . I welcome the Minister to his place . when it come to hold tech company accountable for use copyright material on their platform without consent , the Government ' s Data ( Use and Access ) Act 2025 let down our creative industry . the Department ' s new work group on AI and copyright include just one british tech firm , alongside a host of foreign tech competitor . will his government now give our tech sector and creative industry the proper voice they deserve ? our technology sector , our entrepreneur and our creator be close to my heart , as I spend most of my professional life — prior to come to this place — in those context . we have consult , we have listen and we continue to listen as a new team . across the board , we will look closely at the evidence and make sure that we be back this country ' s entrepreneur and creator . over the last 10 day in my constituency , there have be five of the most appalling and violent act by self - style vigilante group . in each case , they livestream on Facebook Live and tiktok live . those video disappear , and the creator remain anonymous . there will be a criminal justice response , but may I ask the Minister to relook at the protection for those who continue not only to abuse and act racistly in our society , but to do so under the cloak of anonymity ? the right hon . Gentleman raise an incredibly important point . I be sorry and disappoint to hear of the instance he mention . this be an incredibly important issue . we will look closely at the evidence base and if , under the code of practice for illegal harm already publish and implement by Ofcom , there be find to be deficiency in practice by any of the firm he mention , we will , I be sure , take appropriate action . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I be delighted to join the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology . this be a crucial area for our country , provide opportunity for job and work , and to improve our public service . as Secretary of State , I be get to work straight away . as I say on Monday , I have strengthen the law to add further protection from dangerous self - harm material online . social medium company now have to take action to not just remove that material but prevent it from come up in the first place , so that the internet can live up to its real potential as a place of opportunity where everyone can learn , connect and be creative , free from fear . I , too , welcome the right hon . member to her place . her predecessor , the right hon . member for Hove and Portslade ( Peter Kyle ) , warn that lose control of artificial general intelligence would be catastrophic , yet he fail to deliver legislation to protect the public . will the new Secretary of State deliver on an artificial intelligence Bill , and ensure that the british people benefit from the advantage of AI , without become its victim ? I want to ensure that people , business and creative throughout the country can benefit from the huge opportunity that technological development in AI promise , and that people be protect , too . it be early day in this job , and I be listen carefully to all those involve , but wherever action be require , I will take it . what conversation have take place with UK Research and Innovation on the support and development of new sustainable transport technology , and on how they might benefit constituency such as mine , Crawley ? my hon . friend will know that the UK be a world leader in research and innovation . over the spending review period , we be deliver £ 86 billion for research and development — a record amount . ukri invest more than £ 300 million a year in transport innovation , and sustainability be a key focus . project include work to develop new aviation fuel production technology that could reduce emission by up to 80 % . there be more that we can do . I know he be passionate about this issue , and either I or my Ministers will be very happy to meet he to talk more about what we can do . we now come to the shadow Secretary of State . I welcome she to her new position . thank you , Mr Speaker . I welcome the new Secretary of State to her place and , of course , I welcome her stellar team . the Minister of State , Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , the right hon . member for Edinburgh South ( Ian Murray ) , be so hot that he snare two job from the guy who just fire he . the Tech Secretary replace the Ozempic of Whitehall , the right hon . member for Hove and Portslade ( Peter Kyle ) , who claim that his digital plan would shear £ 45 billion of fat from the Government . by how much do it cut the civil service ? I believe that use tech and AI to modernise our public service enable the people who work in the public sector to spend more time on the thing they want to spend time on — serve the user of public service — and less time on red tape and bureaucracy , much of which be put in place by the hon . Lady ' s Government . I fully agree with the right hon . Lady , but the number of civil servant have rise to a 20 - year high under Labour . if somebody in the private sector lead a reverse efficiency drive , they would get sack ; Labour make the person responsible Business Secretary . for a welfare meltdown , you get to be the Minister for the future , but while AI be scream for cheap electricity , the Prime Minister can not sack his fail Energy Secretary . why should the tech sector believe that this be a Government of delivery ? because this Government believe that science , technology and innovation be how this country will seize the opportunity of the future . unlike Opposition Members , we be determined to deliver that change for people in every part of the country , no matter where they live , because our people be our good asset . we want to grow the economy , transform our public service , and sort out the mess leave by Opposition Members . too many of my constituent in Lichfield , Burntwood and the village be struggle with appalling mobile signal . it be a problem we see across the country , and it be often bad in rural area . what step be the ministerial team take to ensure that the Government ' s review of the mobile market lead to a fast roll - out of 5 g ? we can not ensure that everybody in this country benefit from be online and from development unless everybody be join up to fast broadband . we have put £ 1 . 8 billion over the spending review period into make connectivity work . I be work closely with Building Digital UK ; if my hon . friend have concern about his constituent , he should come and meet I and Building Digital UK to get they online , because that be how they will seize the opportunity of the future . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 10 September . I start , Mr Speaker , by express our sincere condolence to his Majesty the King and the royal family on the death of her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent . her life be fill with compassion and dignity . she dutifully support our late Queen Elizabeth II , comfort the runner - up at Wimbledon , and work anonymously as a music teacher in Hull — typical of her unassuming nature and human touch . I be sure the thought of the whole House be with his Royal Highness the Duke of Kent , his family , and all those whose life she touch . turn to other event , I condemn the strike that Israel carry out in Doha yesterday . they violate Qatar ' s sovereignty and do nothing to secure the peace that the UK and so many of our ally be commit to . I speak to the Emir of Qatar last night , soon after the attack , to convey our support and solidarity . he be crystal clear that notwithstanding the attack , he will continue to work on a diplomatic solution to achieve a ceasefire and a two - state outcome , on which he and I be of the same mind . that be why I meet President Abbas on Monday and will meet President Herzog later today . I will be absolutely clear that we condemn Israel ' s action . I will also be clear that restriction on aid must be lift , the offensive in Gaza must stop , and settlement building must cease . but however difficult , the UK will not walk away from a diplomatic solution . we will negotiate , and we will strain every sinew , because that be the only way to get the hostage out , to get aid in , and to stop the killing . last night , Russia launch drone into Poland in an unprecedented attack . I have be in touch with the polish Prime Minister this morning to make clear our support for Poland . we will stand firm in our support for Ukraine . with our partner and through our leadership of the coalition of the willing , we will continue to ramp up the pressure on Putin until there be a just and last peace . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . I have send a letter of condolence to the royal family on behalf of the Commons , follow the sad news about the Duchess of Kent . let we now come back to Dr Luke Evans . one year on from the election , the country have see a Transport Secretary resign over fraud , an anti - corruption Minister investigate for corruption , a homelessness Minister make tenant homeless , and a Housing Secretary not pay tax on her second house . we also have a Prime Minister who accept more freebie than any other MP in the previous Parliament . be this what the Prime Minister mean by " integrity " when he come to government ? here be the difference : I strengthen the ministerial code and the independent adviser . the previous Deputy Prime Minister refer herself to the adviser , and there be a clear finding ; she do the right thing . contrast that with the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , who be find to have breach the code under the previous Government . what do the then Prime Minister do ? he ignore it . there be a resignation , but it be of the adviser , not the person who be find to have breach the code ; the right hon . Lady still sit on the Opposition Front Bench . that be the difference . after almost two decade of the SNP — hear , hear ! ten more to come ! order . if the right hon . Gentleman carry on , there win ' t be 10 more decade of the SNP in this Chamber . thank you , Mr Speaker . after almost two decade of the SNP and 14 year of the Tories , Kirkcaldy High Street have be in a state of decline . that be why the Chancellor be right to prioritise Kirkcaldy for multimillion - pound regeneration funding from the new growth mission fund , to build on the enormous potential of our town and its beautiful sea front . do the Prime Minister agree that investment over decline be key for this Labour Government , and will he ask the new Business Secretary to meet I to discuss the funding ? my hon . friend have be a tireless campaigner for investment in her high street . I can give her good news : thank to funding commit by the Chancellor and this Labour Government , I can confirm today that subject to business case approval , we will approve million to transform Kirkaldy ' s high street and sea front . I will make sure that my hon . friend get the meeting she want with the Business Secretary . the SNP have squander the potential of high street for two decade . next year , people can vote for positive change with a Scottish Labour Government . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s comment about the Duchess of Kent ; she live an exemplary life of public service , and will be very much miss . I agree with the Prime Minister , as all of we in this House should : we stand shoulder to shoulder with Poland and all our NATO ally against Putin ' s aggression . a NATO country have just have to defend itself against russian drone . now more than ever , we need our ambassador to Washington fully focus on this issue , and liaise closely with America . do the Prime Minister have full confidence in Peter Mandelson ? let I start by say that the victim of Epstein be at the forefront of our mind . he be a despicable criminal who commit the most heinous crime and destroy the life of so many woman and girl . the ambassador have repeatedly express his deep regret for his association with Epstein , and he be right to do so . I have confidence in he , and he be play an important role in the UK - US relationship . this be interesting . the Prime Minister say that the ambassador have express full regret , but the victim of the paedophile Jeffrey Epstein have call for Lord Mandelson to be sack . just so the House be aware , in 2019 , Jeffrey Epstein be convict of child prostitution and sex trafficking , which take place between 2002 and 2005 . that be the precise period when Lord Mandelson call Jeffrey Epstein his " good pal " . be the Prime Minister aware of this intimate relationship when he appoint Lord Mandelson to be our ambassador in Washington ? as the right hon . Lady and the House would expect , full due process be follow during this appointment , as it be with all ambassador . the ambassador have repeatedly express his deep regret , and he be right to do so . he be now play an important part in the US - UK relationship . I ask the Prime Minister if he know about the relationship . the fact that he do not answer indicate that he probably do know . I be not ask a question about process ; I be ask a question about his judgment . the Daily Telegraph report today that while Lord Mandelson be Business Secretary , he broker a deal with Jeffrey Epstein , and that this occur after Epstein have be convict of child sex offence . give this new information , do the Prime Minister really think that it be tenable for our ambassador to remain in post ? the relationship between the US and the UK be one of our foremost relationship , and I have confidence in the ambassador in the role he be do . I think it be embarrass that the Prime Minister be still say that he have confidence in a man who be broker deal with convict child sex offender while sit in Government . that be a disgrace . this government have repeatedly refuse to declare Lord Mandelson ' s full interest . as part of the appointment , there will have be extensive Government vetting , cover detail and timing of Peter Mandelson ' s dealing with Jeffrey Epstein . will the Prime Minister publish all the document , include those about Lord Mandelson ' s interest ? as I say , full due process be go through in relation to this appointment , as would be expect . as the right hon . Lady well know , the publication of document be subject to a procedure that include an independent element . this would have be subject to the usual procedure . the Prime Minister can not answer any question . that be not the behaviour of someone who have full confidence . the ambassador should be in the White House , talk about how we respond to an incursion into NATO airspace ; instead , he be give interview about himself to the Sun . this be a man who have already have to be remove from Cabinet twice , and now we learn that he be broker billion - pound deal with Jeffrey Epstein while he be Business Secretary . I do not get a proper answer . the Prime Minister be talk about process , but this be not about process ; this be about judgment . just last week , I tell he that he should sack his Deputy Prime Minister . Labour Members be all cheer and congratulate themselves , but she be go two day later . his phase 2 be break , and he have a wholly new Front - Bench team . I will ask he again : will he ensure that these document be publish ? will he actually instruct Peter Mandelson to publish all his correspondence with Jeffrey Epstein ? the Leader of the Opposition say that the ambassador should be in the White House , discuss NATO ; he be . we all be discuss that — we do so through a number of international call this morning — as well as Ukraine and the attack in Doha yesterday . I see that she be finally catch up with the question that she should have ask last week about the Deputy Prime Minister . in the meantime , we have open up a new school - base nursery ; on Monday , we have the defence industrial strategy ; and on Tuesday , we publish NHS league table to push up standard . we reopen Doncaster Sheffield airport yesterday , and today we have set out how we be repair the concrete in our hospital . a load of waffle and whataboutery . all Labour Members be interested in right now be their pointless deputy leadership election , while the country out there be suffer from an economic crisis . the Prime Minister have an ambassador mire in scandal , not focus on NATO . he lose his Deputy Prime Minister just last week for evade taxis . he have a new Home Secretary and a new Foreign Secretary who be just learn the rope and not able to help with this issue . we have strike cripple our capital city and damage our economy . he could use the minimum service legislation that the Conservatives introduce to make the life of the people out there well , but he will not , because he do not have the backbone to face down the union . the union be run the government ; all the deputy leadership candidate be chase after they . with this government , it be more strike , more scandal and more chaos . be not the link between all this his bad decision , his bad judgment and his total weakness ? our deputy leader contest start this week and end on 25 October . the Conservatives ' leadership contest have be go on for month , and will continue for a very long time . [ interruption . ] all this noise from the arsonist while we be put out the fire that they leave behind ! interest rate and waiting list be down . wage , investment and deportation be up . now we be step up defence spending , create new job , drive up standard in our NHS and rebuild our crumble school and hospital . this be a Government of patriot fight for work people . this Labour Government be get our NHS back on its foot ; there be 20 , 000 few patient on waiting list at my local trust since the election , but there be still more to do , include make it easy to see a gp . will the Prime Minister set out how the Government will give my constituent in East Worthing and Shoreham access to the healthcare that they deserve ? I be pleased that we have make progress on the NHS . we promise 2 million extra appointment in the first year of a Labour Government , and we have deliver not 2 million , not 3 million , but over 4 million extra appointment , with 2 , 000 extra gps . we be clear up the dangerous reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete in our hospital . the national league table that we publish this week will ensure that investment go where it be need most , and our 10 - year health plan will see neighbourhood health centre in every community , treat patient close to home . there be more to do , but we have make a lot of progress . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I join the Prime Minister in send our condolence to his Majesty and the royal family on the death of the Duchess of Kent . I also echo the Prime Minister ' s condemnation of Netanyahu ' s attack on Qatar . those be not the action of a leader truly focus on get hostage home . I hope that the Prime Minister will say that directly to President Herzog later today . on World Suicide Prevention Day , I thank all who be work to prevent suicide , from professional to charity like the Samaritans . when I talk to parent of disabled child , there be one complaint about Government that come up time and again : all the hoop that parent must jump through , be it deal with ehcp , the DWP or HMRC . caring be exhausting enough without all the form , and the rule that show no understanding of the reality of life as a carer . that be something that Emily and I know well , and something that the former Deputy Prime Minister bring attention to last week . will the Prime Minister work with carer across the House to overhaul system for family carer , so that Government work much well for people look after their love one ? I agree with the right hon . gentleman ; there be too many hurdle and too many hoop that have to be go through . that be why we be simplify the system , and we will , of course , work across the House with all those who want to achieve that outcome . may I also thank those deal with suicide prevention ? probably everybody in this House know someone who have take their life . it touch all of we and we must do everything we can , together , to prevent suicide . move on , as the Leader of the opposition say , Lord Mandelson have admit to continue his relationship long after Epstein be convict , and that there be more embarrassing detail that we do not yet know . People will be surprise by the Prime Minister give Ambassador Mandelson such strong support today . will he tell the House whether he have ask the ambassador what other compromising material the Trump Administration might have on he as he lead Britain ' s negotiation with the White House ? as I have make clear to the House , full due process be go through when the appointment be make . my constituent Connor Edwards live with Ehlers - Danlos syndrome and craniocervical instability , which , in his word , mean his head be slowly fall off his body . have once enjoy fishing and mountain biking , at the age of 30 Connor be now largely bed - bind and say his condition have destroy his quality of life . he be have to crowdfund for treatment in Spain because the NHS can not give he the help he need . will the Prime Minister ensure that I , Connor and EDS charity have a meeting with the Minister to discuss what more we can do to give thousand of people like Connor their freedom back ? I have read through the detail of Connor ' s case , which have just be summarise . it be heartbreaking . I thank my hon . friend for consistently campaign and champion all those affect . I will make sure that he get the meeting he need so that we can hear from Connor and other and learn from their experience . Gaza be a graveyard . yet rather than end arm sale , extend sanction and stand by international law , the Prime Minister will today welcome into his home — a home entrust to he by the people of these isle — the man who call for the collective punishment of the palestinian people and who sign the artillery shell that destroy their home , their family and their friend ; a man who will ignore every word the Prime Minister say . would he invite Vladimir Putin into no . 10 ? would he invite Benjamin Netanyahu into no . 10 ? what do it say of this Prime Minister that he will harbour this man while child starve ? for the record , we have suspend arm that could be use in Gaza , we have sanction extremist and we have suspend trade talk . the point the right hon . Gentleman raise be a very serious one . we all want an outcome that ensure that there be peace , that the hostage get out , that aid get in and that there be a two - state outcome . it be the only way we will get peace in a region that have suffer conflict for a very , very long time . I will not give up on diplomacy — that be the politic of student . let ' s talk about fracke . it contaminate the water table , it cause air pollution and the test drilling in Lancashire lead to earthquake . will the Prime Minister stand up to the climate denier ? will he ban fracke once and for all ? do he agree that those who be back it be support fracke stupid reform ? we will ban fracke for good , and let we be absolutely clear that the big risk to energy price be stay hooked on volatile international fossil fuel market . in stark contrast , Reform be ignore local community , put green job and investment at risk and commit to high bill by warn renewable company not to invest . that be shocking . a few short week ago , a constituent of mine die in a tragic fire at the Lady Bailey residential park in Winterborne Whitechurch . the fire be attend by 50 Dorset and Wiltshire firefighter and other . this summer alone , 900 grassland , woodland and crop fire have equal the busy year on record for that fire service , and I extend my thank to all of they for all that they do . the Prime Minister will be aware that rural funding be always an issue and that the delivery of rural service be always a challenge . will he arrange for the relevant Minister at the Home Office to meet I and senior official in that fire service to discuss the need of our rural area to ensure that my constituent and those across the county of Dorset and Wiltshire be keep as safe as they possibly can be ? I be very sorry to hear about the case that the hon . Gentleman raise , and I be sure that the thought of the whole House will be with the friend and family of the constituent that he reference . indeed , our thought be with all those affect , particularly farmer , and I want to join he in thank our firefighter , who have work tirelessly to keep people safe . we have provide Dorset and Wiltshire fire and rescue authority with an increase budget of almost £ 75 million , but I will ensure that he get the meeting he have ask for to ensure that we can properly support our firefighter and protect our farmland . this morning , I speak to the parent of a young man who be unemployed in my constituency . there be 20 people on the dole in my area for every job that be advertise . unemployment be a personal crisis and a social crisis . will the Prime Minister join I in remind the House that unemployment be not a price worth pay , which the Conservatives clearly believe , and will he indicate that he will break with the fail economic orthodoxy that suggest that such a thing be true ? I be pleased that the employment rate be up , that inactivity be down and that we have create over 380 , 000 job since we have be in power . go far , I know that my hon . friend , as a proud Yorkshireman , will welcome the reopening of Doncaster Sheffield airport just yesterday , which be make possible by the decision we have make . that be a labour mayor work with a Labour Government to create job across the country . fifty - one israeli arm company be exhibit at the Defence and Security Equipment international arm fair in London this week , and some of they even boast that their product be battle test . we all know what that mean : that they have be use to kill man , woman and child . this government often ask we what more we expect they to do when it come to Gaza . here be one thing : will be Prime Minister stop israeli arm dealer parade their Gaza - test weapon on UK soil ? we have very clear and strict rule in relation to this , and we have take action in relation to arm sale . I thank the Prime Minister for his sympathy and word of condolence follow the sudden and untimely death of Hefin David , our Welsh Member of the Senedd for Caerphilly . his contribution over the past 18 year as a councillor and as a Member of the Senedd since 2016 be always relevant , witty and incisive , and our thought be with his partner and his family . Drone Evolution , a manufacturer base in Caerphilly , and Airbus in Newport West be just two of the company that will benefit from Labour ' s investment in defence . can I welcome the new defence industrial strategy and ask the Prime Minister to update the House on how the new defence growth zone will create more job across Wales and beyond ? Hefin be a proud welshman and a champion for Caerphilly . we send our love and support to his partner , Vikki , and his daughter , family and friend . Wales have a thriving defence sector and I be delighted that it will host one of our new defence growth zone . that is invest £ 250 million to make defence an engine for job and growth across the United Kingdom . that be what we get when we have a Labour Government in both Cardiff and Westminster work together to deliver for Wales . my local borough commander in Romford tell I how much valuable police time be be waste investigate trivial social medium post and non - crime hate incident . should the police not be patrol our street rather than moderate the internet ? will the Prime Minister commit to urgently update the Public Order Act 1986 to reflect the reality of the digital age , so that our police be focus on tackle real crime and uphold freedom of speech , rather than suppress it ? I have be clear on a number of occasion : I do want the police to concentrate on serious crime and on crime that matter most to our community in each of our constituency . I have say that before , and I say it again today . People in Crackley and Bradwell and right across Newcastle - under - Lyme be sick and tired of antisocial behaviour go untackle . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to take back our street , but we need action . will the Prime Minister join I in urge the conservative police commissioner in Staffordshire to use the resource that he have be give to support our local police and finally get a grip , so that my constituent can live their life free of hassle and , most importantly , safely ? the Conservatives decimate neighbourhood policing . People should feel safe in their community , and that be exactly why we have commit to put 13 , 000 additional police personnel back in our town centre and community . that mean there will be a name police officer in every community , arm with tough new respect order to break up antisocial behaviour . these power be contain in our Crime and Policing Bill , which the Conservatives and Reform vote against . his Majesty ' s Prison Stoke Heath in Shropshire have see six death in custody in less than two year . that be above the national average . will the Prime Minister join I in call on the Ministry of Justice to ensure that there be enough resource and that the right governance be in place at Stoke Heath ? the Secretary of State for Justice will look into the matter and take up the suggestion , and I will arrange for a meeting as soon as possible . vaccination be invent in Berkeley in my constituency 230 year ago and , as a gp , I have jab literally thousand of child and adult . will the Prime Minister update the House about our new roll - out of chickenpox vaccination , which will far protect our child ? will he also join I in condemn other political party that give a platform to people who spread false rumour about vaccination ? my hon . friend speak with great authority , and I be proud that Labour be protect 500 , 000 child by roll out chickenpox vaccine . in stark contrast , the man who write Reform ' s health policy have make shocking and baseless claim that vaccine be link to cancer , and that have be endorse by the Reform leader , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) — [ interruption . ] they laugh at it . these dangerous conspiracy cost life , and this show that reform can not be trust with our NHS . Sunnica solar farm , which run through my constituency , be give permission by this Government , and there be more solar farm application in the pipeline . my constituent be concerned that these application be be make without a land use framework , which would have provide reassurance that the compete demand for land be balance effectively . will the Prime Minister commit to give the land use framework statutory weight to ensure that land be use strategically to get the good out of it for new clean , renewable energy that genuinely benefit community and for farmer , nature , water and housing ? it be important that we move to renewable in order to have energy independence and to keep our bill down , and this will benefit lot of community , include the hon . member ' s . I want to reassure her constituent that we will of course follow process and that they will always have a say in any decision that we make . the leasehold system be fundamentally break . thousand of leaseholder in Hendon be get a raw deal , pay ever - rise service charge for ever - poor service . that be why I welcome the Government ' s commitment to end the feudal system of leasehold once and for all . will the Prime Minister share with the House what action the Government be take to help leaseholder and bring in a system of commonhold ? the previous Government shatter the dream of home ownership . we be reform the outdated system so that leaseholder receive strong right , power and protection . we will bring to an end the feudal leasehold system , reinvigorate commonhold and deliver the big boost to social affordable housing in a generation . since May , my constituent Sue have receive thousand of pound - worth of fine after a criminal gang in London clone her number plate and go on a rampage through the capital . in an age of increasingly sophisticated digital security , the number registration system seem like a remarkably analogue anachronism — it be ripe for abuse and it be fail driver . will the Prime Minister look at and pick up my Vehicle Registration Marks ( Misuse and Offences ) Bill , which I present last week , to strengthen the legislation and ensure that police service have the tool they require to tackle that grow crime and protect law - abide motorist ? I be sorry to hear about the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . that be an awful situation for anyone to find themselves in . I will of course look at his Bill . I be sure that the Prime Minister recall visit the ukrainian community in Acton with I soon after Putin ' s illegal invasion . they still remember it fondly . they want I to ask he whether , next week at Trump ' s state visit , he will harness to the max his unique role — with influence in the US and the coalition of the willing in Europe — and redouble all effort to find a just peace , with security guarantee for they and war crime punish , so that we can end this war , which have go on far too long ? I do recall that visit — it be extremely good and very welcoming . our support for Ukraine remain unwavere . the attack last night in Poland show that Putin ' s belief be that he can somehow act with impunity . that be why we be work so hard with the coalition of the willing to ensure that there be security guarantee as we go forward . we have make real progress in recent week ; we must continue to ramp up the pressure on Putin . today be the 10th annual back British Farming Day . give that the Prime Minister have be so keen on reset in recent week , will he reset his relationship with our farmer and reverse the family farm tax ? let I tell the House what we be do . we be work with the former President of the National Farmers Union , Baroness Minette Batters , to review farm profitability — that be the key issue . we be deliver the 25 - year farming road map , and we have strike a deal with the EU , which be of great benefit to farmer , and which of course the Conservatives say they will reverse . that be on top of the £ 5 billion that we put into farming in our last Budget . today be World Suicide Prevention Day . it can be scary to talk about suicide , but we need to . so many of our constituent will know or love someone who have take their own life , or they may have suicidal thought themselves . but suicide be not inevitable ; it be preventable , and everyone have a role to play in save life . will the Prime Minister reaffirm the Government ' s commitment to prevent death by suicide and say how they be tackle this vital issue ? may I start by thank and pay tribute to my hon . friend for her work as my parliamentary private Secretary for the past 14 month ? she have work tirelessly and with huge commitment and respect across the whole of this House . I think that suicide prevention matter to everybody in this House . I will reaffirm our commitment and I will work across the House with all member to deal with suicide prevention . Qatar : israeli Strike ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs to make a statement on the implication of Israel ' s strike in Qatar for peace and stability in the middle east and for UK foreign policy . the UK Government be deeply concerned by Israel ' s strike in Doha yesterday . as the House hear a few minute ago from the Prime Minister , he and the Foreign Secretary have condemn these flagrant violation of Qatar ' s sovereignty , which will set back the cause for peace and risk further escalation in the region . the Prime Minister have speak to the Emir of Qatar to express the UK ' s solidarity and support and to reaffirm our share commitment to regional stability . the Prime Minister also give his condolence for the death of a qatari security officer kill in the attack . sadly , Qatar ' s Ministry of Interior have overnight confirm the death of a second person . Qatar be play a critical role in mediate the conflict , drive effort to secure a ceasefire and to facilitate vital humanitarian access to Gaza . that must remain the priority . this Government continue to support it in its effort to push for an immediate ceasefire , the release of all hostage cruelly detain by Hamas , the protection of civilian and the unrestricted flow of aid into Gaza as the vital first step towards long - term peace and stability . that be the only way to achieve last peace and security for Palestinians and Israelis alike . that be why we be work with partner to develop a framework for peace that address governance , security , humanitarian access and political reform . negotiation , not more violence , be the way to achieve that . we be actively work together with our international partner , include the G7 and the UN Security Council , to co - ordinate effort aim at de - escalation and to reiterate our full support for the sovereignty of Qatar . early this week , the Prime Minister meet President Abbas to discuss the intolerable situation in Gaza , the need for an urgent solution to end horrific suffering and famine , and the Palestinian Authority ' s reform agenda , which be vital for a two - state solution . today the Prime Minister will meet President Herzog of Israel and reiterate the UK ' s grave concern follow yesterday ' s strike , and reiterate that man - make famine in Gaza must end and the renew offensive in Gaza must not happen . we will continue to push for a political resolution to end this conflict and strive towards a last peace . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant my application for an urgent question . I be grateful to the Minister for his statement . last night ' s israeli strike against Hamas official in Qatar herald a new and grave escalation in this terrible conflict . Prime Minister Netanyahu ' s willingness to strike Doha will undermine effort to secure the release of the hostage still hold in Hamas captivity and set back the path to a desperately need ceasefire . liberal Democrats have call for more diplomatic pressure to be place on Hamas by the Qataris , include the threat to exile the leadership of Hamas from Doha unless we see the immediate and unconditional release of the remain hostage . that be the kind of diplomatic pressure that must be bring to bear . instead , the israeli Government have choose a path that even President Trump , Netanyahu ' s big cheerleader , appear appal by . let I be clear . liberal Democrats support the right of the state of Israel to exist and its right to defend itself , like all nation , but Israel have obligation under international law and duty to its ally , both of which it have breach . can the Minister confirm whether any UK entity , include the joint command at the Al Udeid airbase , be inform by Israel of the attack in advance ? will he confirm that , in addition to what he have already say , the Prime Minister , in his meeting with President Herzog today , will condemn yesterday ' s attack in the strong possible term and make it clear that the UK view it as a flagrant breach of international law ? last night ' s strike be inseparable from the ongoing humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza . they have far erode our collective hope for an end to the suffering of both Gazans and the hostage , so it be time for meaningful action by this Government . will the Minister confirm that the UK will take the step necessary today to end the export of F - 35 part to Israel , and in the light of the further egregious breach of international law direct by Netanyahu overnight , that President Netanyahu will be sanction ? Mr Speaker , as you would expect and as be our usual practice , I will not be comment on sanction from the Dispatch Box . the Prime Minister have set out to this House his intention for his meeting with President Herzog later . I can confirm that the Foreign Secretary meet President Herzog this morning and raise these point among a range of other , include the urgent need both to ensure that aid get into Gaza and that there be further israeli support for british effort to medically evacuate injure child and to provide fully fund scholarship to the UK . I call Dame Emily Thornberry , Chair of the Select Committee . what happen overnight illustrate a huge problem that the new Foreign Secretary will need to deal with ; I be pleased that the Minister will be ably help she . the problem be this : there be an emboldened , far - right israeli Government who believe that they can do whatever they like and there will be no consequence , while on the other hand the country of Qatar be genuinely work towards peace . I know the Minister have meet the Qatari Ministers ; I have meet they too . they could not be more sincere in the effort they be make , yet they get bomb for their effort . the question for the new Foreign Secretary be how we can make sure that we be not just bystander but play an active role in deal with this issue . how will the Prime Minister be able to convey such a message to President Herzog this afternoon ? I thank my right hon . friend for the question . it be vital that at such serious moment that the UN Security Council play its full part , so I can confirm to she that the UK be support call for an emergency session of the UN Security Council this evening . the Foreign Secretary will be join call with her E3 counterpart this afternoon , and we will be discuss this matter , as my right hon . friend would expect , with a range of G7 ally , include the United States . we come now to shadow Foreign Secretary . this be clearly a very , very serious moment for the middle east . no one in this House want to see a spiral of escalation of hostility . both Israel and Qatar be important and value strategic partner for the United Kingdom , and we value and recognise the extensive effort by the qatari government to secure the release of hostage and work towards secure a ceasefire . it be tragic , as the Minister have highlight , that security guard be kill in this attack , but there be some fundamental issue here , and many of these point have be make from the Dispatch Box time and again . this be a moment for our country . Britain must contribute and provide the british expertise necessary for conflict resolution and support strong regional initiative , include back Qatar and the Qataris on release the hostage and achieve a ceasefire . on top of that , of course , we must work with our ally in the United States , and next week ' s visit from President Trump be a crucial moment . there can be no more equivocation , as this issue continue to afflict the region day after day after day . it be also true that we certainly should not be mourn the Hamas leader who have be kill . Hamas have hold innocent hostage in terrorist captivity for over 700 day , and they be responsible for the atrocity of 7 October 2023 , which also kill british national . in recent month , Israel have be remove terrorist actor across the middle east — the leadership of the Houthis , Hezbollah and malign individual in the iranian regime too . that mean that our Government must play a strong role and stand firm on degrade Iran ' s nuclear capability and that malign influence in the region . in recognise the sensitivity of the situation in the Gulf , will the Minister confirm what action he and the fcdo will take to stabilise effort to secure the release of the hostage ; what proactive step be be take to degrade Hamas and their capability ; and , of course , how we can work constructively with our partner in the region to drive the right outcome , include achieve a ceasefire ? I thank the right hon . Lady for those important question . the british Government be fully commit , with our Gulf and G7 partner , to effort to ensure that the current negotiation come to the conclusion that we wish to see . those include conclusion in the short term — we have long repudiate Hamas ' s hostage taking , so the hostage need to be release immediately , and humanitarian aid must get into Gaza . as I say in response to the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) , there be also other question about governance and security , and about the long - term prospect for Gaza , for the west bank , and for a state of Palestine and a state of Israel live side by side . we be fully engage in that diplomacy , as the right hon . Lady would expect . on the right hon . Lady ' s wide question about fragility in the region , she will be familiar with the decision we have take on snapback . I imagine that we will return to discuss Iran in great detail at some point in the future , as I be conscious that there be development over recess . we have trigger snapback and we will continue to return to the House to discuss the threat of Iran ' s nuclear programme . the long that Israel be allow to act like a rogue state , bomb sovereign country with impunity and expand its war in the middle east , the weak our word look — Gaza , Lebanon , Yemen , Iran , Syria , tunisian soil and now Qatar . why be we meet Israel ' s President Herzog today , when his own word and those of Netanyahu show a complete disregard for international humanitarian law ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for her work on a whole range of question , include current effort to try to ensure the successful evacuation of vulnerable people from Gaza . it be important that we raise our concern directly to the israeli Government , both to contribute to the diplomatic process and to try to secure the practical and tangible help require to get people out of Gaza . the British Foreign Office on its own can not secure the speedy departure that we wish to see . do not the event of yesterday underline the critical need to secure a ceasefire and , above all , to move into a political process ? will the Minister — we be all pleased to see he continue in his role follow the reshuffle — commit to building on the important work do by Egypt , Turkey , Qatar and Saudi Arabia to effect that peace process ? all of they have underline the fact that there be no place for Hamas in Gaza or anywhere else in government follow the event that have take place . I be grateful for the kind word from the right hon . Gentleman , and indeed for those I hear from the Labour back Benches . I be continue in my role and look forward to appear before the House in the usual way . he be right to emphasise not just the important statement from the UK and our western ally , but the important commitment that have be make — particularly in July but since then as well — by Qatar , Egypt , Turkey and a range of other state , which have a real role to play in mediate the immediate pressure and in try to end up in , as he say , the more permanent ceasefire that we want to see . I thank the Minister for outline the strong condemnation of the attack and the blatant disregard for Qatar ' s sovereignty . I refer the House to my register interest , as I visit Qatar last year and speak to Ministers there . I see how diligently they be work , day in and day out , to secure the ceasefire and the hostage , and to get that urgent aid in . do the Minister share my view that Qatar ' s role in mediate this conflict will be blow into jeopardy by the recent attack , and will he ensure that the Prime Minister continue to condemn this attack when he meet the israeli President later this week ? my hon . friend be quite right ; Qatar have play a vital role in this conflict . I work closely with my qatari counterpart , and not just on the urgent issue of the middle east but across a whole range of difficult conflict . they play a vital role and be commit — as the Emir of Qatar tell the Prime Minister this morning — to continue to play that mediation role . I can not see how such strike help Qataris perform that role , but they be commit none the less to continue it , and they have our full support . the event of yesterday come as no surprise to those of we in the Chamber who have raise the issue of the israeli Government ' s crime , commit with an air of complete impunity . it should now be crystal clear to the Minister , as it be to so many across the world , that the israeli Government be not interested in the slight in peace , or indeed in the fate of their hostage . in that light , I have two question . first , what military and intelligence assistance will we provide to the Qataris to allow they to defend themselves against further attack ? secondly , will the UK add its voice to the grow call across the world for the formation of an international protection force to enter Gaza and enforce a peace ? on the right hon . Gentleman ' s first point , we be commit to Qatar ' s security and defence — we have a close relationship with the Qataris on both , and we be of course in constant discussion with they about the importance of that collaboration . on his second point about a protective force — and here I will take advantage of the question ask by the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Sir Andrew Mitchell ) , who be Secretary of State for International Development when I be post in South Sudan with a chapter VII UN peacekeeping force , which at that time have the most far - reach mandate to protect civilian — we in this Chamber can not pretend that UN peacekeeping force be able to impose peace where there be none . there must be a ceasefire negotiation . in Juba I see , as do the world , the horrifying ethnic cleansing that follow the inability of the UN mission to protect people . we must have a ceasefire . it be easy to get distract with other alternative , but the truth be that only a ceasefire will protect civilian in Gaza . give that , under article 51 of the UN charter , any pre - emptive strike be normally regard as justify only when a threat be imminent ; that article 2 ( 4 ) state that " all member shall refrain in their international relation from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state " ; and that article 51 state that " measure take by member in the exercise of this right of self - defence shall be immediately report to the Security Council " , do my hon . friend agree that international law and the preservation and strengthening of the rule - base system be vital to the people of the region , the wide world , our ally Qatar and the UK ? will he make it clear to Israel that we expect it to obey international law ? we expect Israel , alongside all of our ally , and indeed every state , to abide by international law . my hon . friend set out the relevant test of self - defence and imminence . as I have say , the UK be support a motion for an urgent session of the Security Council this afternoon on this question . member have already outline how Israel have violate international law by attack Qatar . will the UK Government lie therefore down a motion at the UN to condemn the action of Israel ? as I have say , the UK be support a motion for a session of the UN Security Council this afternoon . if that motion be grant , the session be expect to take place this evening — our time . Israel be a rogue state that blatantly disregard international law . this bombing be a blatant attempt to scupper peace negotiation . plead with Israel will do no good , so how many more war crime or violation of international law be necessary before the Government impose the tough sanction on Israel that be need to force it to stop this ? I think I cover the point about sanction early . I be surprised and disappoint that there be no word from the Secretary of State in relation to the terrorist attack in Jerusalem on Monday , where terrorist open fire on a bus , kill rabbi and woman . the reality be that Hamas ' s leadership not only condone the attack , but praise it . do the Minister agree that it be essential that we get to the point of have a ceasefire that allow for the release of all the hostage without condition , and for Hamas to surrender their weapon and agree to demilitarise Gaza ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise the attack in Jerusalem , which I condemn utterly and outright . it be barbaric and , as he say , woman and rabbi be kill . the UK have no truck with it and we condemn it outright , just as we condemn all such activity by Hamas , include the taking of hostage , the event of 7 October and the long litany of terrorist attack that they be responsible for and glorify . Benjamin Netanyahu ' s extrajudicial killing against a sovereign western ally expose his rejection of peace and deliberate escalation of atrocity in a clear violation of international law and diplomacy . he have destroy the peace talk and act with impunity . the UK Government have rightly condemn these action , but when will they uphold international law , call out the israeli Prime Minister as a warmonger and perpetrator of genocide , end arm sale to Israel and impose the severe sanction that his conduct demand ? the Prime Minister set out some of what our Government have do in relation to the suspension of arm sale and sanction on extremist figure in the israeli Government , so I will not belabour those point here . on peace talk , the Emir of Qatar be clear that the Qataris will continue in their mediation role . we should not count out peace talk while the Qataris rightly continue to try to push they forwards . Israel ' s bombing of Doha be the action of a state that know it can act with complete impunity . once again , the Netanyahu regime have show that international law simply do not apply to it , and as long as this government ignore the overwhelming evidence of the genocide in Gaza , so that they can profit from the sale of weapon to Israel , that situation will continue . will Minister tell we — unless this be just another example of the performative condemnation that we have see so often from this government — what exactly the consequence will be for Israel for this egregious attack on Qatar ? I have set out some of the step that we be take in relation to this strike , include support an emergency session of the UN Security Council and have discussion with our ally , include the E3 , which the Foreign Secretary will undertake shortly . I would not wish to be draw far as we discuss this very important incident with our ally . I take issue with the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation . the conflict in Gaza be not a question that relate primarily to UK arm . we be a tiny supplier of residual arm . we have suspend the sale of all of those arm that could be use in Gaza . there be other state with much full arm relationship — [ interruption . ] the figure be 15 % . the hon . Gentleman say " 15 % " , when in fact he mean 15 % of component of the total F - 35 supply . the truth about the total supply to Israel be that it be less than 1 % . the Minister be absolutely right to call for a session at the United Nations — nobody can think that attack the people try to broker peace be go to lead to a ceasefire — but ahead of that , this country must have make some assessment of the case for the session and the motion . will the Minister tell we what assessment his official have make about the civilian casualty and whether this strike be proportionate under the boundary of the law of armed conflict , as set out in international law ? if we go to the UN , what case will we be make ? I would not want to be draw on a casualty tally from the UK . as I set out in my response , Qatar have be clear about its own assessment and these thing tend to develop in the immediate aftermath of a strike , so I will not be draw on casualty or the number of people strike . Qatar , quite rightly , will release that information when it be available . my hon . friend ask about the international law test against which this strike must be judge . those test be self - defence and imminence , and in any session of the UN Security Council those be the test that we would expect Israel to be able to satisfy . it be not only on this issue , but on many other issue that Qatar , Saudi Arabia and other middle east nation have develop a real niche and leadership in mediation and conflict resolution . will the Minister look at our own conflict resolution unit and its resource and spend , and double down on how we be work with the Qataris on all their mediation effort ? the right hon . Gentleman raise an important question . the strength of our relationship with Qatar on conflict mediation and our own capability be an important area of work . I understand deeply how important that be because I be a negotiator in the Foreign Office , as be our National Security Adviser . I have be due a further discussion with my qatari ministerial counterpart . regrettably , it have be continually delay by event in the region , but we hope to have it soon . Qatar be an ally , and a key negotiator and mediator in Gaza ceasefire talk . through commit atrocity in Gaza , illegal settlement in the west bank , march into Syria , and attack Lebanon , Iran , Yemen and now Qatar , this israeli Government have prove themselves to be a rogue ally to we and a dangerous neighbour . at what point do the UK draw a line in the sand and call out this israeli Government for what they be — a danger to peace in the middle east ? I thank my hon . friend for his long commitment to these issue . he have hear my condemnation , as well as that of the previous Foreign Secretary , the current Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister , of many of the israeli Government ' s action in relation to Gaza , the west bank and elsewhere . where we disagree with the israeli Government , we be clear and forceful in say so . give that Israel continue to act with impunity , what new lever will our Government use to take action that be within its power , such as restriction on travel and trade , air and sea delivery of aid — give that land delivery be so appalling — and in relation to the F - 35 ? we be breach international humanitarian law ; can we please stop do so ? I do not like to get ahead of the court on the question of the F - 35 . there be extensive legal argumentation in the Al - Haq case , which do not find in the way the hon . Gentleman suggest . turn to the question of air and sea access to Gaza , both method have be try . the UK support airdrop alongside our jordanian partner over the summer , such be our desperation to get aid into the strip . however , we can not escape the fact that airdrop be a pinprick at well , give the overall scale of need . there be an aid operation that work and have a track record , which be the United Nations operation . and sea ? Sea be also try , particularly during the late period of President Biden , but be not find to be an effective mechanism for get aid in . where we can get aid in — even in small amount — we will do so , but I can not pretend from this Dispatch Box that any method other than the land route and UN support can reach the scale that be require to meet the need . I be pleased to see the Minister back at the Dispatch Box , although I be not sure whether he be equally pleased to come back to the Chamber once again to answer question about the illegal action of the israeli Government . we have a situation in which one of our ally have unlawfully attack another of our ally . give that we be rightly stand with the Qataris , be it not time we recognise that because of their action in Doha and their continuous starvation and murder of innocent civilian in Gaza , this right - wing israeli Government and this extreme right - wing israeli Prime Minister be no long ally of our ? I thank my hon . friend for his kind word about my reappointment . I recognise the force of what he have say about israeli politic ; it be not appropriate for one Foreign Minister to comment on the internal politic of another country , but from the sanction I announce from this Dispatch Box in June , the House can see the strength of this Government ' s feel about — for example — the rhetoric of Mr Smotrich and that of Mr Ben - Gvir . it have be deeply dishearten to see that rhetoric repeat over the course of the summer , but where we can , we demonstrate in the strong possible way the strength of our feeling on these question . the event that take place early this week in Jerusalem , and yesterday , prove that the two extreme in this conflict have no interest in peace . Hamas benefit from the violence , and the right wing of the israeli Government also profit as it seek to expand Israel ' s territory and subject the palestinian people . I entirely agree with my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) and amplify the point that he make . follow yesterday ' s event , Trump and the American Administration appear to be as annoyed with Israel as the rest of the world be , so be it now time to call Israel ' s bluff through the United Nations ? be it not time to seek the engagement of blue helmet or some similar force , to enable we to say , " we , as an international community , have people on the ground . Don ' t you dare fire into that area . let we now trigger peace talk . " without that catalyst , those two extreme will just continue , along with the performative merry - go - round of " here we go again " , condemnation , and another statement or urgent question . I fear that in three or four year ' time , there will be rubble in Gaza , the israeli Government will be even more of a rogue Government , and we will be no far forward . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about the risk in Gaza — we have see that rubble grow . the british Government would support international force go into Gaza with the agreement of the party . in response to the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , I speak about my own experience of the limitation on peacekeeping force where there be no peace to enforce . we be depressingly clear - eyed about the continue intent on both side to continue conduct violence , exactly as the right hon . Gentleman have describe . in the past month alone , Israel have bomb Palestine , Lebanon , Syria , Tunisia and Yemen . yesterday , for the first time , it bomb Qatar . what be the Government ' s legal assessment of the strike on Qatar , and do they consider they to be a violation of international law ? we utterly condemn the violation of Qatar ' s sovereignty , as the House hear from the Prime Minister this morning . as my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) set out , the international legal test be to do with imminence and self - defence . there will be a session of the UN Security Council , and it will be for Israel to demonstrate how its action be consistent with those test . today of all day , after an illegal attack on peace broker Qatar , it be shocking to see the UK roll out the red carpet for President Herzog , who have dehumanise suffer Palestinians and incite violence against civilian . the Minister ' s Government be be see to pander to politician who flout international law . he rightly call for a ceasefire ; when will he call what be happen in Gaza a genocide ? President Herzog be in the UK on a private visit , so I would not characterise the visit as one for which the red carpet have be roll out . I reiterate that so many colleague on the Government Benches , and I be sure colleague on the Opposition Benches as well , be rightly very conscious of the urgency of help people out of Gaza , ensure that aid get in , and ensure that there be a ceasefire . President Herzog be the Head of State ; he be not a functional part of the Government . he be an important conduit for raise those concern . this morning , among other thing , the Foreign Secretary seek to ensure great support from the israeli Government for get child with injury , and student , out of Gaza . these be difficult , practical matter on which we be focused . I understand that some Opposition Members would perhaps prefer that we do not conduct such talk , but the Government and I be focus on the practical problem of help people in Gaza , and the Foreign Secretary have already raise they with the President this morning . this morning on Radio 4 , an israeli politician , Fleur Hassan - Nahoum , offer no apology for the israeli attack on Qatar and could not explain what make Israel exempt from international law and able to act with impunity . how do the Minister justify the genocidal comment of President Herzog ? these individual must be hold accountable . what we be see be not diplomacy — it be shameful complicity . do the Minister agree that today ' s meet with Herzog should never have take place ? I set out the position in relation to President Herzog ' s visit just a minute ago . I be not familiar with the israeli politician in question , but I can say that the UK consider international law to be bind on all state . despite the atrocious terrorist attack in Jerusalem , I have to agree with the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) when she say that blow up the enemy ' s negotiator do not exactly suggest an interest in a negotiate solution . however , I would like clarification on the Government ' s position on recognition of a palestinian state . on 1 September , the then Foreign Secretary say that he propose to recognise a palestinian state , but that Hamas would not benefit from it , because they would have to be disarm . do that mean that Hamas must be disarm before recognition , or will recognition go ahead , as seem to be the case , whether Hamas be disarm or not ? the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary then and now have be clear that the Prime Minister will make a determination in advance of the UN General Assembly high - level week , in accordance with the language set out in the statement of July . the right hon . Member make important point about what the previous Foreign Secretary say about Hamas . we must remember that Hamas be not in favour of two state ; they be in favour of one state from the river to the sea , and that be not the position of the British Government , and nor be it should we take the decision outline in July . we all want to see peace , the hostage return and an end to the man - make famine in Gaza , but this attack on a sovereign nation so closely tie to the peace talk undermine all that . it be as awful as it be counterproductive , so what can we do to ensure that the pursuit of peace be more than just lip service for the Netanyahu Government ? my hon . friend have be a persistent advocate on these question , and I look forward to continue to answer his question from the Dispatch Box . he should not , though , be more pessimistic about the prospect of continue mediation and the Qataris themselves , particularly give that they be very much on the close edge to this issue . we will continue to support they in their effort . they be vital and , for all the reason we have discuss this afternoon , the only way through . we keep talk about a ceasefire , but how can one be achieve if one side be intent on kill the negotiator from the other ? attack peace negotiator be simply reprehensible and undermine any possibility of the only thing — dialogue — that have any chance of bring a resolution to the horror in Gaza . it be not the action of a state seek peace ; it be the action of a rogue state operate with impunity completely outside international law , cross red line after red line . I ask the Minister again : give that repeat crossing of new red line , what action will he match his condemnation with ? will he stop all arm sale , all military co - operation , all intelligence - sharing and all defence deal , current and future , with Israel ? will he sanction Netanyahu and all official complicit in the war crime and genocide in Gaza ? I have set out already in this session our condemnation of the strike , the sanction take against extremist figure in the israeli Government and the other measure we have take . in relation to action that follow from the strike on Doha , the Foreign Secretary will shortly be in touch with her E3 colleague , and we hope that there will be a Security Council session this evening . I thank the Minister for his statement . I do pray that one day he will come to the Dispatch Box with good news for we , to be frank . in my surgery at Oxgangs library on Saturday , a UK - palestinian woman come to see I . she bring date cookie , which have be freshly make by her mother . I have hope to save one for you , Mr Speaker , but it prove not to be possible . she speak passionately , and she be really concerned about the visit of the israeli President to the UK . I speak about what the Government have be do and action that I have support that I believe have save life . but with what we have see in Qatar , I think Netanyahu have make a fool of we , and I fear that he will continue to make a fool of we . be it time to change direction to avoid this happen again — to avoid we take a stand , demand a ceasefire and Netanyahu just laugh at we ? I be disappointed that my hon . friend ' s constituent do not reserve a cookie for I , but I be grateful for the important question that she ask . for the reason I set out before , it be important that we continue to engage directly with the israeli Government , particularly on question such as the evacuation of vulnerable people from Gaza , on which Israel ' s co - operation be essential for any further progress . several of our partner in the region — in north Africa and the middle east — have expend a great deal of political capital in try to achieve a rapprochement with Israel in recent year . the Minister will be aware , for example , of Morocco and its work and leadership in achieve the Abraham accord . what do he think this attack have do to they , and what confidence can they have that Israel be now truly embark on a quest for peace in the region ? even in advance of the event yesterday , nation in the region that have take the step of sign the Abraham accord be signal disquiet , most obviously and signally the United Arab Emirates , which release an important statement on this question . I will not seek to speak for our arab ally , but I be sure that they will be look at the event yesterday with great concern , and I be sure that the right hon . Gentleman will have see the number of statement that have issue from the region over the last 24 hour . a man - make famine in Gaza , increase settler violence in the west bank , and now this attack on sovereign Qatar : I fear that these be not the action of an israeli Government commit to peace . with that in mind , will my hon . friend urge the Foreign Secretary to speak to our friend and ally and find out what more we can do to pile concrete pressure on the israeli Government to get round the table and seek that ceasefire that we so badly need ? I thank my hon . friend for his commitment to these issue , and I can confirm that the Foreign Secretary be , practically as we speak , in consultation with friend and ally about what further step we might take . I have say this before , but so many constituent from Yeovil — some as young as 11 — have tell I that they be so frustrated that Britain be not do more . will the Minister reassure my constituent that the Government be do all they can to make sure that these strike do not break down the peace process completely and that enough aid get into Gaza now ? the hon . Gentleman ' s young constituent be absolutely right , and I can reassure they that we be do everything we can to try to ensure that the mediation continue , that progress towards a ceasefire be make and , of course , that aid get into Gaza . blessed be the peacemaker , or so we be tell — so it seem particularly wicked that Israel can deliberately target the country that be do more to promote peace than any other in the region . be the tragedy of the middle east not that the Palestinians in Gaza and the Israelis in Israel be govern by deeply unpopular extremist who have no interest in peace , on either side ? after this week ' s appal murder at a bus stop in Jerusalem , the israeli Government impose collective punishment on the village where those terrorist come from , remove hundred of work permit and proceed to start demolish many home . do Netanyahu ' s decision to bomb Qatar not prove beyond doubt that he do not care about the hostage , that they be collateral damage as much as any palestinian child , and that Israel be now a rogue state ? must not the UK put in place severe sanction against this rogue state to prove our word ? I be glad to be answer question from my hon . friend again , as he have be a persistent advocate on these matter . there be deep concern about event . the attack in Jerusalem be horrific , as I say to the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) . the development in the west bank , both over the summer and before , be deeply concern , and I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise they . we will continue to keep all measure under review , as he would expect . we have take far - reach action , with three wave of sanction target in particular on violent settler . we will continue to keep such option under review as development proceed . let we look at the fact behind Israel ' s strike . we have a bunch of terrorist who have be sit in the safety of Qatar for year , organising and financing act of terror , include the mass murder of civilian in Israel this week , and boast about their involvement in it . be it not an advance that those people be eliminate and it be make clear to they that they will face the consequence of the terror that they organise ? be show they that they will be pursue and punish , and that they will not win , not more likely to drive they to the peace table than to continue their act of terror ? we have condemn the strike , and I do so again . it violate Qatar ' s sovereignty . obviously , the question of the fact of the strike will now be contest , and , as I say early , the qatari government be release those fact as they conduct a full investigation . regardless of anybody else , there be qatari official kill in the strike , and it be a violation of Qatar ' s sovereignty . for that reason alone , it be worth condemn . what security information be now share with Israel ? be the information collect by the more than 600 Royal Air Force flight over Gaza be use to guide the israeli bombardment of building in Gaza City and other place ? be we still continue security co - operation with a country that have bomb almost every neighbouring state over the past year ? for reason the House will understand , I will not give a lengthy commentary on security and intelligence matter , but I can confirm to the right hon . Gentleman that we do not provide any information to aid in target strike in Gaza in the way that he describe . as a seasoned diplomat , do the Minister recognise that there be a danger that we be hold Israel to a different standard ? when the Americans reach out into Pakistan to snuff out Osama bin Laden , the architect of 9 / 11 , we be take they to the bar ; when Israel reach out with a precision decapitation strike on the leadership of Hamas , we want to take it to the bar of the international court . the hon . Gentleman do make I feel rather seasoned , as I be in Pakistan at that time . as I say early , the test in international law be self - defence and imminence . not every state agree on the threshold for those test , but it be the expectation of the British Government with all our partner and ally — indeed , with every state — that they demonstrate how they be comply with international law regardless of who they be . I be pleased to have the Minister ' s confirmation that , despite yesterday ' s egregious action by Israel , Qatar will continue its commitment to pursue the peace that we all long for in the middle east . to that end , the Government have say that they would commit to recognise a state of Palestine before the United Nations General Assembly if Israel fail to meet certain condition . have Israel fail to meet those condition , and will the Government recognise Palestine as a matter of urgency ? the Prime Minister will make a determination on the question in advance of the high - level week of the General Assembly . that be not long now . the whole House can see the development of event in the region and , indeed , the language we set out in July . I do not wish to get ahead of the Prime Minister before he make that determination . my Lib Dem colleague and I have repeatedly call on the Government to introduce further sanction on Israel ; we call for sanction on Ministers Smotrich and Ben - Gvir , and now we call for sanction on Prime Minister Netanyahu and his Cabinet . do the Minister agree that those be the people who be responsible for create a famine in Gaza and continue the killing of innocent civilian ? as we discuss last week , the circumstance of the famine in Gaza be horrify and it be absolutely obvious that the restriction on aid into Gaza , for which the israeli Government be responsible , be contribute very significantly indeed to those circumstance . the israeli Government have raise methodological concern with the IPC judgment . those concern arise from the fact that there be not free access into Gaza . we stand by the IPC and the judgment it have make . it be clear that the restriction of the israeli Government , on which I have be clear at the Dispatch Box innumerable time and have see for myself at the border , be responsible for those circumstance . we have have a number of ceasefire historically . each one be violate by the israeli Government . the recent attack in Qatar be a clear example that the israeli Government be not interested in a ceasefire ; they be interested in a genocide , take over the whole of the Gaza strip and west bank — we see that in their reaction and in what they say in the public arena . none of the lever that we have speak about in this House seem to have have any impact . it be like a toothless tiger : we say we be go to apply this pressure and that pressure , and nothing seem to be do . this blatant , unlawful attack on Qatar require punishment . do the Minister not think that the immediate , unconditional recognition of a state of Palestine be a form of punishment and would go far to a ceasefire than what we be talk about ? I set out in response to the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) the process by which we will make the determination on the recognition point that we set out in July . that point be very soon ; the high - level week of the UN General Assembly be just week away . the hon . Gentleman will have an opportunity , I be sure , to question I and other member of the Government after the Prime Minister have make his determination . I do not think it be right that we should think of recognition as a punishment . if that be indeed the determination that we make , it will be a reflection of our long - stand commitment to a two - state solution . it be unlikely in and of itself to ameliorate the horrifying famine and the many other source of agony that flow to the palestinian people at the moment . that do not mean that , if the Prime Minister make that determination , it may not be the right thing to do , but the House should not think that it will necessarily bring any immediate improvement in the humanitarian situation in Gaza . Qatar have use its good office for diplomatic negotiation for many year . Taliban representative secretly arrive in Qatar 15 year ago and subsequently attend peace conference in Japan , Germany and France . if the UK and our ally let these strike by the Netanyahu - lead Government go , they could be a precedent for strike on other intermediary . how be the Government encourage our ally to introduce sanction on member of the far - right israeli Government ? I have set out the consultation with our partner that will be happen today and , I be sure , over come day . the hon . Gentleman be right about the role of Qatar over the year , include in the Taliban talk that take place there for some time , and we have discuss already the question under international law about state strike other state . in respect of sanction , the Minister will be aware that I ask the then Foreign Secretary last week whether he would make sure that the UK have no involvement in the propose Elbit contract , either commercial or governmental , that there be absolutely no use of the Akrotiri air base in Cyprus to the advantage of the israeli military , and that there be absolutely no trade with the illegal settlement in the west bank . can the Minister confirm that the position remain the same follow the change of guard , and that he will make sure it be follow through ? I can confirm that the british Government ' s position remain as set out by the then Foreign Secretary last week . I join the House in its condemnation of the attack against civilian in Jerusalem this week . the impunity and military support afford to the state of Israel over the past 77 year , and as it carry out the ongoing genocide in Gaza and wide Palestine , have embolden its leader to launch assault in Lebanon , Syria , Iran , Tunisia and now Qatar , kill thousand and force million to flee their home across the region . be the Minister not concerned that the british Government ' s continued support for a rogue state perpetrate repeat violation of international law will lead to Israel invade other country , and undermine the UK ' s security and credibility on the world stage ? do he agree that Qatar have a right to defend itself against this unprovoked illegal attack ? I have set out our position in relation to a whole range of israeli Government action with which we disagree , so I be not sure I would characterise our position in the way that the hon . Gentleman do . I have already set out our position on the relevant question of international law as far as I be able . can the Minister confirm whether the Attorney General will publish any advice that he or the Government have receive on whether there have be breach of international law during the conflict in Gaza ? that be more properly a question for the Attorney General . I think there have be some correspondence between he and his shadow , but I will revert to the Attorney General ' s late position on that question . we have witness the israeli army massacre over 60 , 000 people in Gaza , 19 , 000 of whom be child . the blood - soak tentacle of the israeli army be now reach close to home , especially in my case . yesterday afternoon in Doha , my niece and her daughter be have a lovely time together in a library when the israeli army , which this Government fail to condemn for commit genocide , drop a bomb two or three street away from where they be . the building shake , and there be smoke everywhere . my niece ' s baby be still ask , " will it happen again ? " , so I ask the Minister : will it happen again , and what will this Government do , beyond say empty word ? when will we completely stop every single arm sale to Israel , impose economic , political and social sanction , and use all our power to get desperately need aid into Gaza ? I think I have answer question on arm and sanction already in this session . I want to be clear : we have condemn these strike , and we do not want to see they again . we be discuss these matter with our ally , include , we hope , at the UN Security Council this evening . we will no doubt keep the House update on how those discussion go . I thank the Minister for his very confident reply to the question , and wish he well in his role . these thing be never easy , but the Minister have do quite well . the loss of life be , of course , regrettable in all situation . this House must also condemn the callous murder of six innocent Israelis , include two rabbi and woman , on the day before the attack in Doha . do the Minister acknowledge that the UK must share pertinent intelligence with Israel to ensure that target attack take place , so that Israel can cut the head off the Hamas snake ? then , and only then , can there be peace for Israel and Gaza , the Hamas threat have be target and eradicate effectively . I thank the hon . member for his kind word . I have set out clearly our absolute opposition to Hamas on a whole range of question , but I have also set out our understanding of international law , why we condemn these strike , and why we do not want to see they repeat . russian Drones : violation of Polish Airspace ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Defence if he will make a statement on the violation of Poland ' s airspace by russian drone . welcome to your new job , Minister . this be my first UQ in the House , and this be a very serious topic to be discuss . last night , as we know , Poland shoot down multiple russian drone that have enter its airspace . Poland state that the drone be part of a co - ordinate russian attack on target across the border in Ukraine . the Ukrainians be subject to a barbaric attack every evening , but this be an unprecedented violation of polish airspace ; indeed , it go deep enough for Warsaw airport to be close . I thank the polish and NATO air defence force for respond rapidly and effectively to protect the alliance . the area affect be region on the border of Belarus and Ukraine . Poland temporarily close its airspace and some airport , and emergency alarm be issue for the region affect , but airspace and most airport have now reopen . Russia ' s action be absolutely and utterly reckless , unprecedented and dangerous . this serve to remind we of President Putin ' s blatant disregard for peace , and of the constant bombardment that innocent Ukrainians face every day . in response , Poland ' s Prime Minister , Donald Tusk , have announce that Poland will invoke NATO article 4 , which allow any ally to consult other when it believe that its territorial integrity , political independence or security be threaten . the Prime Minister have be in contact with Prime Minister Tusk to make absolutely crystal clear the UK ' s support for Poland , and that we will stand firm in our support for Ukraine . the Defence Secretary be meet e5 counterpart today , and will discuss what additional support we can provide , include to reinforce Ukraine and strengthen NATO . we stand in full solidarity with our ally Poland . we condemn this action . we say to Russia : " your aggression only strengthen the unity of NATO nation . it only strengthen our solidarity in stand with and beside Ukraine . it remind we that a secure Europe need a strong Ukraine . " with our ally and partner , and through UK leadership of the coalition of the willing , we will continue to ramp up the pressure on Putin until there be a just and last peace . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . may I begin by express our total solidarity with the people of Poland ? the Opposition stand shoulder to shoulder with the Government in support of our strong NATO ally . Poland be a great nation , and a great friend of Britain . our thought be with its people , and we fully support all effort to rally our NATO ally and ensure that Poland ' s invocation of article 4 be respond to as swiftly as possible . this be an unprecedented violation of polish and NATO airspace that must be meet with total condemnation and a robust response . so must the late bombing of Ukraine , as Russia continue to target civilian and conduct an unprovoked war of aggression , without any regard for human life . what , if any , judgment have the Government be able to form of the precise motivation for this drone incursion ? if this be design to test NATO ' s resolve , will Putin not have already see how strong the resolve be to stand united against this aggression ? we understand that Dutch F - 35s be directly involve in support the polish military response , and that fighter from other NATO nation may have be scramble . be it not sober that the F - 35s from the Netherlands follow we in rotate air support for Poland , so if this incursion have occur just week ago , RAF Typhoons could have be directly involve ? on the specific of our joint NATO response , can the Minister say more about what invoke article 4 mean in practical term for the UK and our ally , and what the next step be ? importantly , what discussion have the UK Government have with our US counterpart on these development ? above all , give that this incident involve the use of lethal russian drone against a fellow NATO member , what further step be the Government now consider in order to constrain Russia ' s ability to threaten our close ally , and to provide further support to Poland ? finally , in the light of the Norway deal , the Minister will be aware that one of the large ever defence export deal conclude under the previous Government be the sale of ground - base air defence to Poland . in the week of dsei , do that not show why such industrial collaboration with our ally be important , not just economically , but when it come to defend our close ally ? there be those who may question the nature of the russian threat or the need to significantly increase defence spending , but these event should leave nobody in any doubt that the threat extend beyond Ukraine , and that we must therefore continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine , Poland and all our NATO ally . I thank the hon . member for his response , and his bipartisan support on this really serious issue . what be NATO article 4 ? for clarity , article 4 be a consultation mechanism . if an ally perceive that its territorial integrity , political independence or security be threaten , it can invoke article 4 . that be what Poland have do . discussion will then take place in the North Atlantic Council , NATO ' s senior political body , in which the UK will , of course , be involve . I mention the status of the attack . Poland state that the drone be part of a co - ordinate russian attack on target across the border in Ukraine , but that do not in any way , shape or form excuse those attack . they be an unprecedented violation of polish airspace on an unprecedented scale . I agree that our industrial collaboration with our ally and partner be essential , as we and NATO move forward , and as our partner and ally ' relationship move forward , to make sure that we be prepare in every way for an escalation , or an existential crisis , should it come . in our response to Ukraine , we be do a huge amount to lead our ally and partner . as we speak , the Secretary of State for Defence be with the E5 , talk about the coalition of the willing , and he have talk to polish representative already . we be lead the way in that coalition — on its formation , structure and how it will deploy , should it need to , if peace ever come to Ukraine . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . be this not another example that what Russia really believe in be the complete annihilation of Ukraine ? it do not care what collateral damage it do elsewhere . I believe that send drone across into Poland be a deliberate move by the Russians . I welcome the response from Poland and NATO , but do we not need to talk about ramp up industrial co - operation for Ukraine , so that it get more and well munition and equipment more quickly , and ramp up sanction ? with the Budget come up , we need to consider how we ramp up defence expenditure , and far increase it beyond the recent target set . I thank my hon . friend for his question , and for his support for defence . I completely agree that the Ukrainians be undergo a serious violation of international law by a barbaric and reckless leader in Russia . they be experience bombing , drone attack , ballistic missile attack , which can not be hear , subterfuge , sabotage , hostage taking , and the huge , large - scale kidnapping of child . air raid go off every night in Ukraine , in a way that be reminiscent of world war two . the wail of those siren alone will have a psychological impact that will last long after any war finish . why be this happen today ? it be because of Putin ' s barbaric , unprovoked and illegal invasion of a sovereign state . we must continue to do the maximum to support Ukraine and encourage its ally and partner . we have do a significant amount . the House may recall that at the last Ukraine Defence Contact Group meeting , we launch a 50 - day drive to deliver more for Ukraine . fifty day on , we have 5 million round of munition ; 60 , 000 artillery shell , rocket and missile ; 2 , 500 uncrewed system ; 30 vehicle ; and 200 electronic warfare and defence system . on top of that , we have a £ 70 million plan to provide 350 air defence missile , and , finally , £ 150 million to provide air defence and artillery . we be at the leading edge , and have be for a long time , in support Ukraine , and we will continue to be , long into the future . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . overnight , Poland face down an unprecedented violation of NATO and polish airspace — the late act of belligerence by a russian dictator hell - bent on recreate the russian empire . this be a stark reminder that history can not repeat itself . the drone be part of Russia ' s late large - scale assault on Ukraine , an assault in which 450 drone be launch . we thank the polish air force for protect the NATO alliance , and we stand with our ally . no matter what President Trump believe , it be clear that Putin be not stop . he be not consider peace ; he be test NATO ' s limit . a line have be cross , and we must collectively stand up to this aggression . the Government must take tangible action . will the Minister take forward the liberal Democrat proposal to end the import of product use russian oil that have be process in third country ; stop UK company ship or insure russian liquefy natural gas ; and push for a further cut to the oil price cap ? as Tusk say this morning , " action speak louder than word . " the strong action we could take would be to seize the frozen russian asset across the UK . will the Minister commit to do that today ? I thank the hon . member for her contribution , and for her support for defence . she bring up a really valuable point : those who do not read history be doom to repeat it . this be an unprecedented attack , and an unprecedented violation of polish airspace . we be work exceptionally hard with the Polish to ensure that they , and indeed our broad NATO alliance , have everything they need . we already have significant sanction on Russia . there be work go on between the Ministry of Defence and the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office look at how we can move those forward . we will update the House in due course . the appalling attack on Ukraine and the violation of polish airspace yesterday simply highlight the increase and devastating use of drone in modern warfare . I have be contact by Hartlepool constituent today , express their anxiety and fear about what this might mean for our shore . will the Minister share the Government ' s plan to ensure that the UK ' s drone and air defence capability meet the challenge of the change we be see in modern warfare ? I thank my hon . friend for his contribution . he will know that I be passionate about the need for we to increase our uncrewed system portfolio . we have already commit , in the defence industrial strategy and the strategic defence review , to create an uncrewed centre of excellence . that will help we to rewrite our doctrine and concept , but also to integrate drone back into the military and ensure we have a high - low mix of fifth and sixth generation capability , mass with low - end uncrewed system . every night , night on night , we have see an increase in drone attack on Kyiv and other city , from Dnipro to Zaporizhzhia and Kherson and back again . they be increase on an unprecedented scale . some could argue that Putin have be embolden recently , but we be see an increase and we must do everything we possibly can to support the Ukrainians . I commend the hon . Gentleman ' s statement on our support for Poland . of course we have to support Poland ; it be quite right that we should do so . may I return the hon . gentleman to the main issue here , which be Russia ' s intense bombing attack on Ukraine ? I recently come back from Ukraine . every night in Kyiv , Lviv and other town , people be be kill by this brute . this be just an example of what be go on across the border on a great scale . this question remain for we . have the Government really make overture to the US President to say that the time be over for constant statement that say that we may do something , we will do something and we will have sanction ? surely , we now have to get the US to massively up the level of sanction . that be what Russia fear . also , european nation must be tell that they can not buy any more oil or gas that have be run through India or wherever . that have to stop . we have to make that work . and we have to make sure that , at the end of it all , Russia pay a penalty right now and understand that . will the british Government please take the opportunity , when the US President come over , to say , " enough be enough . please act and get this thing do " ? I thank the right hon . member for his contribution and for his stalwart support on both defence and foreign affair . our sanction programme have be pretty impressive to date . I can almost guarantee that when the US President come over , there will be discussion on a whole range of topic and that Ukraine will probably be central , alongside other issue within the UK . impose a penalty on Russia be exactly what we have do in a bipartisan way . when the previous Government be in office , we lead the way on equipment go into Ukraine . we be continue to do that . we have see a huge uplift in the amount of resource go to Ukraine , financially and in term of weapon , but also , importantly , in industrial build across Europe . that be not just in the UK , but across all our european nation . industry be require to maintain the pace and scale of the conflict , which I think have catch people out in the past . follow on from the question by the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , the reality be that Putin have become emboldened since he meet President Trump . no long be there pressure for an immediate ceasefire , only that we get to a long - term , distant peace arrangement that , as we all know , will never happen . the threat of further sanction from the US , which Putin be really frightened about , have now apparently be take off the table . when President Trump come over here , will my hon . friend engage with our colleague in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to try to put pressure on President Trump to say we should recognise that the one thing that can be do to get President Putin to back off and properly look at a ceasefire be further sanction from the US , to marry those put on by ourselves and our european colleague ? I thank my hon . friend for his contribution . he be the third person to speak about sanction ; it absolutely have sink in , and we will discuss it with our cross - Government colleague in due course . I would not underestimate the ability of the Americans to act — it be down to the american people and the American Government to decide , but I would not underestimate that ability over the short , medium or long term . one of the key point of have a US visit of such a level be that it will give we the opportunity to discuss these issue in person and to really highlight what be important to we . it speak to the importance of be in the tent to have those discussion for we as a Government , and for everybody and every party in this wonderful place . let we be clear : this be no accidental violation of Poland ' s — or NATO ' s — airspace . as NATO member , one could argue that it be actually a violation of our own airspace . be it not clear that Russia be test NATO ' s resolve , and that Putin will ruthlessly exploit any real or perceive diplomatic , military or political weakness ? I get the Minister ' s point on calibration and proportionality , but what do a robust response mean ? follow on from an early question from the Labour Benches , give that there be many russian ship in the english channel and around these isle from which drone could easily be deploy , what about UK air defence ? the intelligence agency will be able to provide the good analysis of this attack , so I will not jump to conclusion on the intention behind it . it have , however , be clear for several year now that there have be consistent testing of NATO as a whole , whether that be 20 , 000 cyber - attack from hostile state in the past two year or the use of chemical or radiological weapon on UK soil , to name just two of the litany of incident . I fully support the ukrainian strategy of fight and talk to keep the pressure on the Russians to ensure that they come to the table . I fully support a US - lead peace process , but the Ukrainians ' view must be central , and they must lead it from their perspective . I be glad to hear the Minister ' s resolve and , indeed , the whole House ' s united condemnation and shock at these outrageous attack . the UK must stand firm with NATO , with Poland and with Europe , and we must increase our support for Ukraine and its neighbour include Estonia , Latvia , Finland , Lithuania and elsewhere . follow on from the previous question , what step have the Minister take to review our defence in the light of recent event ? first , we be fully in support of our NATO ally and , of course , our baltic ally . the last time article 4 be invoke be 2022 , when it be invoke by many of our baltic ally on the invasion of Ukraine . it have be invoke eight time , with the most recent instance , obviously , be this morning . I be not go to give the detail of our air defence operational capability here , but we do have a suite of capability . if member read the strategic defence review and the defence industrial strategy , they will see that there be a large proportion on industrial rebuild here in the UK and support our ally with joint venture and partnership to re - establish the military industrial base of Europe in these unprecedented time , and central to that will be air defence . I understand that Ukraine hold approximately € 190 billion in frozen russian asset . press report today suggest that there be a level of flexibility in the stance on release they , as long as there be some legal guarantee from the European Union around the risk that may be face . be the Government support the European Union to unlock this opportunity , which could help to support effort in Ukraine ? we support the ability to get resource into Ukraine in any way , shape or form . I will raise that specific matter with the Home Office and our cross - government colleague and get back to the hon . gentleman on the answer . our constituent with link to Poland will understandably be terrify by last night ' s development , but they will also be reassure that the polish people , like the ukrainian people , do not stand alone . NATO ' s supreme headquarters confirm that last night ' s mission involve not just polish air defence , but Dutch F - 35s , German Patriot battery and italian early warning aircraft . the EU High Representative have talk about increase its involvement in the East Shield project , which we be already part of . will the Minister update this House on his conversation with our european counterpart about last night and on what more we will do to stand with the polish and ukrainian people ? first , I would like to thank both polish and NATO air defence force for disrupt the attack that take place yesterday . as member will know , the Defence Secretary be with the e5 at the moment , and they have discuss this specific issue . look forward , we be work towards a bilateral defence and security treaty with the Polish . I recently visit the Royal Air Force in Poland during its recent deployment in NATO ' s enhance air policing mission during Op Chessman , where I see at first hand RAF Typhoons scramble to intercept a russian signal intelligence Coot - A — Poland feel the threat from Russia much more keenly than I think we appreciate in this House . in the drone debate last week , I raise with the Minister that we have a paucity of counter - UAS capability . while we obviously do not face the risk that Poland do or have plan such as the East Shield , what step be the Government take to ensure that our own territory , critical infrastructure and military basis — both here and overseas — possess an organic capability that can be bring to bear ? we absolutely need to have an integrate air defence system with our european and NATO ally , and we must look after our critical national infrastructure ; that be why the SDR and the defence industrial strategy really have a focus on industrial rebuild , part of which be air defence . we be also work with our ukrainian ally to learn good practice from they and pull that back to the UK . Meur ra , Madam Deputy Speaker . not only be the shocking escalation of hostility by Russia a deliberately provocative act , but it threaten all NATO state , and an iron - clothe response be now require . will the Ministry , with our NATO partner , be unequivocal in remind russian and belarusian counterpart of NATO article 5 , and that an attack on Poland be an attack on all NATO partner , include the United Kingdom ? we will absolutely do that . it be worth note that article 4 and 5 be not link ; nevertheless , we will be go all out to remind all our ally and partner of the severity of the situation and , of course , the continue barbaric nature of Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine . will the Minister outline what the Government be do to highlight and explain to the citizen of our country what our obligation be to Poland , Lithuania , Latvia , Estonia and all our NATO ally under article 5 , and the role play by the joint expeditionary force , with the Baltic three , the nordic five , the Netherlands and the UK ? the hon . member raise a really important point . one of the big impact on the cost of live across this country be the war between Ukraine and Russia — it be have a second and third - order effect that be affect everyone in the country . it be really worthwhile remind our citizen of that , and that if article 5 be invoke , we will have an obligation to defend . that be so important when we look at our foreign policy and where we need to prioritise our resource . the UK and Poland have a very close defence and security relationship ; Poland be , of course , one of our most important european ally . what plan do the Minister have to strengthen this relationship and those with our other ally ? do he agree that we need to do all we can to calmly make clear to our population that the defence of the free world be be test , and that we need collectively to be resolute in our response ? in 24 year in the military , I have never see it as fractious or fragile as it be , particularly today . it be on all of we to make sure that the population understand the risk to the geopolitical environment that surround we and give we the standard of living we have in the UK . we be work towards a bilateral defence and security treaty with Poland , which will deepen tie , and an industrial partnership . I believe that this be a deliberate attack by Putin to test the resolve and resource of NATO and that we will see more in the come week , month and year . Russia be very quick to put out disinformation by pump the airwave in the cyber - space . can we ensure that we be provide all resource to counter disinformation , which be a battlespace on its own , and that we be ramp up against the current threat that Russia be push out across NATO country ? I thank the hon . and gallant Member for his contribution and support for defence affair . some can be quite disparage about it , but it be worth remind ourselves that NATO be the most effective military alliance ever see in history . its number and capacity far outweigh some of our adversary . one area it have fantastic command capability in be information operation , and as member of Parliament we can all play our part in that by take away the message we have hear today and make sure that our nation and constituent understand the second and third - order effect of potential escalation . for many year Banbury have be home to thousand of polish citizen , who will understandably be very concerned at event over the past 24 hour . can the Minister reassure they not only that our relationship with Poland be steadfast but that this Government be take step to strengthen it in spite of Putin ? Putin ' s action pull NATO together and forge alliance and partnership , and they focus we in on the barbaric nature of Russia ' s aggression . I have work with the Polish in the past , and we have a great relationship with they . they be increase defence spending , and there be industrial opportunity there . we also have great cultural tie with Poland . the Polish serve in the Air Force in the second world war and all the way through to the latter year . we be fully behind Poland , our ally and partner . I congratulate and salute the brave aircrew who intercept this flagrant breach not just of Poland ' s airspace but of the international rule - base order . I do not believe for one second that this be some inadvertent mistake . this be classic russian playbook . Russia be probe NATO in that attack and will continue to probe until it come up against the resistance that it deem worthy of a change in policy . Russia respond in two way : one be strength and the other be weakness , and if it see weakness it will continue . can the Minister help the House understand what the robust response to this flagrant attack will look like ? as I mention early , when these incident take place , it forge and focus the alliance and take away any friction , because we create unity of effort , so it be a mismove by Putin to think that it do not make NATO strong . if we be look at deterrence , whether by punishment or denial , we see that Ukraine be hold back one of the big military in the world and that there have be a million casualty , and that the denial be great NATO unity and focus on the aggressor that be Putin . this attack by Vladimir Putin on a NATO member that have be a leader in resist russian aggression and supply Ukraine be a clear escalation and an attempt , as other have say , to probe NATO defence and intimidate the alliance . can the Minister assure I that the UK and NATO will not be intimidate and that the Government be consider robust military option to stand up to this bully in Moscow ? close to home , can he assure I that the attack will confirm the urgency to escalate and accelerate our development of the Type 83 destroyer and the future air defence system so that our country be fully protect in the future ? I thank my hon . friend for his contribution to defence . he be a stalwart champion of Ukraine and defence as a whole . I have never be intimidate in my life . we as a country will not be intimidate , and neither will NATO . I reiterate that our defence industrial strategy be absolutely critical . give weapon to Ukraine be one thing , but build industrial capacity to generate mass be how country win war should they be catch up in one . that be why the strategic defence review ' s first 70 page be all about industry . in the Minister ' s excellent response , he talk about the geopolitical situation . during my time in office , I see more and more co - operation between Russia , China , North Korea and Iran . he talk about the emboldening of Putin . do he share my concern that the recent show of unity at the Shanghai Co - operation Organisation summit in China may well have embolden Putin ? that should be a wake - up call for all western democracy to stand together in defence of their mutual value ? I absolutely agree that we must stand together for those mutual value , whether that be the right to independence , to self - determination , to collective security and so on . yes , Putin may feel emboldened , but I would argue that his action today have strengthen and galvanise the alliance . I can guarantee that the discussion with the e5 and NATO that take place will be absolutely focused on Russia , and that drive economic growth and spending on defence , so I would argue that it be not just a shot across the border but a shot in the foot from Putin . rise — Mr Naish , you seem to have bounce around every seat on the Back Bench . be you finally comfortable and ready to ask a question ? yes , Madam Deputy Speaker . I apologise for move around . Poland be one of our close european ally , with a long , share history . in my region of the east midland , that be embody in our large british polish community , whose root go back over 80 year . in the light of last night ' s attack , what be the Government ' s plan to strengthen our deterrence on NATO ' s north - eastern flank ? Poland be one of our strong ally and , interestingly , be build one of the big land force in Europe . its recapitalisation programme be of a significant scale , because it have a large land border . from my perspective , work with Poland towards a bilateral defence and security treaty be absolutely essential due to the industrial and bilateral benefit it will bring . we stand side by side with the Polish — no question , no doubt — and we stand absolutely at the centre of NATO defence policy . my constituency also have a large polish community , who have be alarm to see russian drone violate polish airspace . we all know that if Ukraine be to fall to Putin ' s aggression , Poland would be next in his sight . how be the Government intend to support Poland in defend its sovereignty , and what step be the Government take to strengthen our own security ? I thank the hon . member for her contribution , and I thank the polish member of her constituency for support Poland during these time . we have a multitude of different capability in Poland that have rotate through . for example , as mention by the Opposition , our NATO enhance joint air policing stop just a couple of month ago and be rotate . we also have a light cavalry squadron there work with the Polish and the US . Poland be also a central pillar of the coalition of the willing as we move forward . everything be do by , with and alongside our polish ally . I join the Minister in his condemnation of this clear escalation against our polish ally . he will know that my constituency have a large polish diaspora , who be extremely concerned about their country and fearful of further russian attack . what assurance can he give the polish community in my constituency and across the country , and what work will he do across Government to support the polish community at this difficult time ? the assurance we can give be that NATO be the most effective military alliance of all time , and Poland , the UK and our ally sit central to that . the centrality of the alliance be the good form of deterrence and , therefore , the good form of assurance to both my hon . friend ' s constituent and people across the whole NATO alliance , and it be central to our defence policy as we move forward . President Zelensky have be consistent in his argument that the invasion of his country be just the beginning and that we be all in the crosshair . he make that argument forcefully — and famously — in the Oval Office . do the Minister not agree that what have happen with this violation of Polish and NATO airspace completely vindicate President Zelensky ? I have meet President Zelensky several time , and I be a keen observer of the conflict as it have move forward — a million russian casualty and a 40 km dead zone on the frontline that would reflect any battlefront or frontline from the first world war to the second world war . what be happen there be absolutely atrocious . I be always really clear : deterrence , yes and peace , yes , but appeasement ? no . like the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) , I be part of the excellent armed force parliamentary scheme visit to Operation Chessman in Poland early this year . I also see the scrambling of our RAF Typhoon jet and it go up in the sky to check out suspicious russian air activity . that be a surprise to I , but from speak to our RAF personnel , I find that it be quite common at the time . from speak later on to our polish counterpart , I know that that be what they be face in Poland ; the public there be well aware of the russian threat . here in this country , I be not so sure that the british public get quite how serious the threat be . in Poland , they be on the physical frontline , and people in Ukraine be pay the horrible price of Putin ' s aggression . will the Minister reassure the House and the public that the Government be do all they can to deal with the russian threat of cyber - attack and grey warfare on Europe and , indeed , this country ? my hon . friend bring we to a really important point . we must not alarm the nation and we must not scare the nation , but we must be honest with the nation as to the risk and threat pose towards our defence and , indeed , the citizen of this country . we need to be clear about that . that be why in the strategic defence review we see talk of military intelligence and the review that be go on , because if we be to explain to the population why we be spend more on defence , we must ensure that it be relate to those threat . we will explain it clearly — the SDR have state it — and then we will double down on investment in the defence industry to ensure that we can provide the assurance that we can contribute to NATO in an absolutely above - and - beyond meaningful way . in November 2022 , the hon . member for Widnes and Halewood ( Derek Twigg ) and for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) and I be in Ukraine with the Defence Committee when there be an onslaught of rocket fire into that country , one of which errantly fall into Poland and kill two polish national . on that day , Poland consider trigger article 4 , and today it have clearly do so . in the intervene period of almost three year , there have be a grow reluctance to equip Ukraine to defend its sky and , importantly , to do so from the sky , so while this article 4 meeting of member state will consider how we protect the sky of NATO , will the Minister confirm that he be willing to extend that conversation to how we appropriately and effectively defend the sky of Ukraine ? that be a great question from the right hon . member , who I know be a stalwart supporter of defence . as we move forward with the strategic defence review and defence industrial strategy , we must ensure that we revitalise our defence industry so that we produce that important mix of high - end system — high - end air defence — and low - end system that can be use in an economic mismatch between cheap and high - end system . get that mix right be complicated , but in the defence industrial strategy and the SDR we be intent on ensure that our british military be equip with that high and low - end mix of fifth and sixth - generation and mass - produce hardware in due course . I entirely agree with the Minister when he say that NATO be the most successful defensive alliance in history , but the reason for that be that , until recently , the commitment of the United States to NATO be never in question . it be in question now because of the nature of the incumbent of the White House . President Putin either have some sort of hold over Donald Trump , about which we do not know , or he successfully flatter he . when President Trump be in the country , can we point out to he in the strong possible term that this response by Russia a couple of week after roll out the red carpet for the killer in the Kremlin show nothing but disrespect to the White House and its occupant ? I thank the right hon . member for his continued support for defence . the United States have be really clear that it would like european nation to spend more on defence . it obviously have a multitude of different threat that it have to deal with . when the US President come to the UK — we be in the tent — we be go to sit down with he and discuss these issue in detail . I put on record my respect for the bravery of the ukrainian child Vladyslav , Valeriia and Roman who come to Parliament last night to share their story as survivor of Putin ' s war of aggression . Putin ' s action over polish airspace last night be a deliberate move to test NATO ' s reaction , and the response must match the moment . will the Minister please push for a cohesive plan to seize frozen russian asset and funnel they to the humanitarian mission to support Ukraine ' s incredible and inspiring future generation ? my heart go out to those child and to everyone in Ukraine who be go through this — they have be go through this for several year . I guarantee the hon . member that discussion be ongoing now about how we can push the system more to pressure Russia into come towards the peace table . the Minister agree with my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) that industrial collaboration between the UK and Poland be an important part of our relationship . a key part of that be primarily focus on ground - base air defence , and these event surely underline why that be critical to we and our ally . will he tell we what progress there have be on the joint UK - Poland future common missile programme to create long - range ground - base air defence for both nation ? I do not have the detail on that industrial partnership ; I can write back to the hon . member in due course . air defence be critical , as be make sure that we can secure our ocean , subsurface and , of course , land . it be good that there be universal recognition across the House that last night be an attack not just on polish airspace but on NATO airspace . in term of the response , may I bring the Minister back to sanction ? we have sanction on russian crude oil , although sadly there be at least one NATO country that do not implement they . with regard to refined oil , be we in this country not import considerable quantity of russian crude oil that have be refine down ? in the recent trade deal with India , be there any attempt to put any restraint on that ? on the latter point , I will engage with my colleague across Government and look into the detail . put pressure on Russia be absolutely our priority to bring it to the peace table in due course , and we be work exceptionally hard to deliver that . the Minister be quite right to describe this violation of polish airspace as unprecedented , but I be sure he would agree that it be not isolate ; in fact , it represent the late escalation in Russia ' s campaign of attack on central and eastern european NATO ally . just last year , shopping centre in Vilnius and Warsaw be set on fire , and the leader of those country point the finger firmly at russian military intelligence . just last week , a jet carry the President of the European Commission suffer a cyber - attack that be initiate by Russia . Russia be clearly not deter by the current measure in place . will the Minister outline what we can do as a lead military power in Europe and in NATO to enhance and reinforce the capability of our NATO ally who be on the frontline of the confrontation with Russia ? we be do that right now . the defence industrial strategy , the strategic defence review and the industrial rebuild will ensure that we have the right arm — and enough of they — to reinforce the deterrence and , if call to , to fight and win . russian drone over Poland suggest that Putin be test NATO ' s resolve to support its member . will the Minister push the Prime Minister to urge President Trump and the member of the G7 to produce a cohesive plan to seize the $ 300 billion in frozen russian asset hold in their country and funnel that money to the frontline in Ukraine ? that money would transform Zelensky ' s effort to repel Putin ' s illegal war machine . will the Government commit to do that ? the United States be one of our most critical ally , and when the President of the United States visit the UK there will be a multitude of discussion , particularly focus on Ukraine , european security and , of course , NATO . do the Minister agree that we need to take strong step to deter Putin ? that start with seize billion in frozen russian asset across the UK and use they to support Ukraine in its fight against Russia , because Putin have show that if we give he an inch , he will take a mile . as mention previously , we have to continue to push and pressure Putin to bring he to the peace table , through a whole suite of different capability , from provide arm to Ukraine all the way through to sanction . we will continue to do that . the russian drone over Poland be track by polish aircraft but also by dutch aircraft station in Poland . that remind we that four year ago Putin seek a roll - back in NATO deployment from central and eastern Europe . in 2021 Russia outrageously demand that NATO ally deploy no force in country that join the alliance after 1997 . do the Minister agree that have the US accede to those demand , we might be see devastating consequence in Poland today ? it be so interesting when we talk about deterrence . there be huge multinational NATO exercise that take place every year . I be the chief of staff of the carrier strike group in 2021 , on the date the hon . Gentleman mention . that be call Cold Response , which be the big naval exercise to the High North in several year . we demonstrate to Russia on multiple different occasion how effective the NATO alliance be and , if call to , how it will fight and win . may I give my thank to the polish and dutch air crew who be involve in the defence of Poland ' s airspace last night ? the seat in their jet may have be manufacture and test in my constituency , at Chalgrove airfield , but that airfield could be demolish thank to proposal by Homes England to build a new town there . will the Minister meet I to urgently address that threat to UK national security ? yes . I congratulate the hon . and gallant Minister on his elevation , which be well deserve , an on the comment he make about not be intimidate . he speak for we all in that regard — indeed , I almost feel a poster campaign come , about stand firm . the incursion of russian drone into a NATO member nation be a slap in the face for the very idea of NATO and must be deal with effectively and immediately . what collective discussion will be hold within NATO to determine a robust response to the testing of our border and the resolution to stand fast against Russia ? I thank the hon . member for his question and his support for defence . discussion in the E5 be ongoing as we speak , and the NAC have sit and will continue to discuss this issue . I can guarantee he that the UK will be at the very centre of those discussion and no one will intimidate this great isle at all . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I seek your guidance on a matter that I believe constitute a breach of the ministerial duty to respond to member ' correspondence in a timely manner . on 28 November last year , I write to the now former Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology to raise concern about the absence of legislation require service provider to give resident notice before instal large cable on their property . I have since follow up with the Department on 22 January , 20 March , 28 April , 13 June and 24 July . I have now be wait for nine month without receive a substantive reply . I understand that the new Secretary of State be new in her job and I congratulate she for that , but this considerably hinder my ability to represent my constituent and I seek your guidance on how we can get a response . I be grateful to the hon . member for that point of order and for give advance notice of it . ministerial correspondence be not a matter for the Chair . however , all hon . member should be entitle to expect a timely reply when they write to any member of the Government — I see member on the Treasury Bench nod in agreement and be sure that they will ensure that the appropriate Minister be make aware and respond to the hon . member ' s request as soon as possible . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wish to apologise for inadvertently mislead the House yesterday , during the debate on the Chagos island Bill . in column 816 of Hansard , I discuss the role of Olivier Bancoult in the relationship with David Snoxell , a previous high commissioner to Mauritius . I say : " the latter ' s pressure on David Snoxell be enormous ; he once go to the extent of lock he in his office until they have a proper meeting . " — [ Official Report , 9 September 2025 ; Vol . 772 , c . 816 . ] I have now check that with Mr Snoxell and I make a mistake . the background fact be that in early November 2000 , David Snoxell ask Olivier Bancoult and his committee to come and see he so that he could discuss with they the High Court judgment allow they to return to the outer island . that be a perfectly friendly meeting . Mr Snoxell go on to say : " I have several meeting over the next 4 year with he and his committee member . although Olivier regard I as not on his side and occasionally denounce I in the press , he never lock I in my office . " I want to correct the record so that all can be satisfied that the truth have be tell . I thank the right hon . Gentleman for give notice of his point of order . I also thank he for correct the record in so much detail at the early opportunity . Bill present Biodiversity Beyond National Jurisdiction Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Yvette Cooper , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Darren Jones , Secretary Ed Miliband , Secretary Peter Kyle , Secretary Emma Reynolds and Secretary Heidi Alexander , present a Bill to make provision for and in connection with the implementation by the United Kingdom of the Agreement under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the Conservation and sustainable Use of Marine Biological Diversity of Areas beyond National Jurisdiction . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow and to be print ( Bill 302 ) . neurodivergence ( Screening and Teacher Training ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) 2 . 26 pm I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about screen for neurodivergence in child at primary school ; to make provision about teacher training relate to neurodivergence ; and for connected purpose . I thank hon . member across the House for their support , and I thank the right hon . former Member for West Suffolk for bring forward similar Bills in the past . school be hard for I , and that be put it lightly . Dyslexia mean that read and writing be challenging . word seem to float all over the page — in fact , they be do so right now , so I ask hon . member to please bear with I through this speech as I be likely to make some mistake . attention deficit hyperactivity disorder mean that concentrating be a nightmare , with the slight thing pull my attention away . I believe that school be not for I , I fall behind , I be bully and I certainly act out . I be not alone in that . since I start campaign , I have hear from so many people who struggle , from constituent to celebrity such as Jamie Oliver , who be a great advocate in this area . I wish I could share they all today , but we would be here for many day . around one in seven people in the UK have what we might call neurodivergence . it be a non - medical umbrella term describe the way people ' s brain may develop or work differently from the norm . in some way , we be all neurodivergent to a great or less extent . neurodivergence be not a weakness , a condition or a flaw — I want to make that crystal clear . in other way , it be a superpower and you can do anything you want with the right support — I definitely have with what I have do today . we be problem solver , critical thinker and fantastic creator , but with those strength come challenge such as reading , writing , social skill or math . that do not mean there be anything wrong with we ; it just mean that we learn and understand thing differently , and we might need to be support in different way from other . I be lucky at school , because I be identify and get the support I need . that be why I be stand here today . that support give I the confidence to fight for what I believe in . get into politic and into this place be certainly not on my agenda at school , but I feel that I have to do all I can to make sure that everyone in community such as Yeovil and beyond get the help that I have in school , or well . despite all the progress that our country have make in recognise and empower neurodiverse people , and despite our amazing educator work their sock off — believe I , they do — thing seem to have get bad in place such as Somerset since I be at school . our school be under - resource , under - support and local authority be totally underfunded . we have the phonic screener , but this test do not cover all the area that neurodiverse people may struggle and need support with , such as attention control or working memory . evidence also suggest that neurodiverse child can just memorise the word for the test , mean that their actual need may be overlook . that be one of their superpower ! even when a child ' s need be identify , there be no proper dedicated special educational need and disability training in initial teacher training or continuous professional development programme . nor be it there for teach assistant . our overworked teaching staff be pretty much just leave to get on with it themselves , and that be not good enough . some school manage fantastically , particularly when they be properly fund , but other be struggle . in some way , this be another of those postcode lottery we hear so much about . our child , their family and our teacher deserve well . that be why I be introduce this Bill today . member will be pleased to know that it be not complicated . in fact , the idea behind it be fairly simple . it be about get the Government to use their resource and knowledge to bring everyone together to act , so that we can create a system to well identify neurodivergence and support child early on . what I be propose can be break down into three part . first , we need to define what we be introduce : universal screening , and teach training on this . before the legislation can come into effect , the Secretary of State must lay a report before the House that define neurodivergence . secondly , we need a programme of universal screening for neurodivergence in primary school age child . this would preferably be a light - touch , teacher - lead process . as I have say , we all sit on the spectrum of neurodivergence in some way — no matter what other say — so the screening should not be about label but about create a profile of strength and weakness . this will help teacher to identify where all their pupil sit on the spectrum of neurodivergence and the level of support they need , from in - classroom adjustment to more formal referral . finally , we need proper teacher training . the Secretary of State must produce statutory guidance on training for teacher on neurodivergence in initial teacher training and in continuous professional development . this should be for all teaching staff . this training should provide teaching staff with : a clear understanding of neurodivergence , knowledge of how it present differently in different people , and the tool and resource to support their pupil . I do not want this Bill to be about force label on young people . that will not help . again , it be about help teacher to identify all their pupil ' strength and weakness . the Government will be pleased to know that it be not about force costly screener on school either . while I have not set out a preference , the Universal Classroom have work with teacher to create a universal screener that will be free , so this will not break the bank . most importantly , this be not about put more burden on to our fantastic teacher . I personally believe that teacher do far too much for far too little pay , support or thank . I urge the Government to look at the National Education Union ' s list of 23 admin task that teacher should not be do . this Bill be about empower teacher to do what they sign up for and care deeply about — namely , educate and support all their pupil . to go back to the Universal Classroom screener , it only take five to 10 minute per pupil . with the profile from a screener like that and with well training , all our teacher will have the confidence to make the right adjustment for each child in their class . even small thing such as different paper , extra time or time - out card can make life - change difference . I know this only too well . what I be propose today be no silver bullet . it must go alongside other change in education . if the Government would rather take on these measure in their upcoming White Paper or in some other legislation , fine , I do not really care . all that matter be that we get on with it . we have have enough debating and enough promising . let ' s bring everyone together , roll up our sleeve and take the next step to make education inclusive and accessible for every child . question put and agree to . order , that Adam Dance , Tessa Munt , Ed Davey , Munira Wilson , James MacCleary , Freddie van Mierlo , Ian Roome , Ann davy , Clive Jones , Lewis Cocking , Juliet Campbell and Vikki Slade present the Bill . Adam Dance accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 November , and to be print ( Bill 303 ) . Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee [ relevant document : Third Report of the Transport Committee , Buses connect community , HC 494 ] New Clause 38 - use of zero - emission vehicle for local service in Scotland " ( 1 ) the Transport ( Scotland ) Act 2001 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) before the italic head precede section 36 insert — ' Zero - emission vehicle 35b Use of zero - emission vehicle for local service ( 1 ) the operator of a service that fall within subsection ( 2 ) may not use a vehicle that fall within subsection ( 3 ) to provide the service in Scotland . ( 2 ) a service fall within this subsection if it be a local service which have one or more stop place in Scotland and which — ( a ) be register under section 6 of the 1985 Act , or ( b ) be not require to be register under that section because of section 13b ( 1 ) ( a ) . ( 3 ) a vehicle fall within this subsection if — ( a ) it be construct or adapt to carry both seat and stand passenger , with the number of seated passenger be more than 22 ( determine in accordance with regulation make under section 26 of the Public Passenger Vehicles Act 1981 ) , ( b ) it be first register under the Vehicle Excise and Registration Act 1994 on or after a date specify in regulation make by the Scottish Ministers , and ( c ) the tailpipe emission from it include any of the following — ( i ) carbon dioxide , ( ii ) carbon monoxide , ( iii ) hydrocarbon , ( iv ) nitrogen oxide , ( v ) particulate . ( 4 ) the Scottish Ministers may by regulation — ( a ) specify description of document that may be rely on in order to determine for the purpose of this section what be include in the tailpipe emission from a vehicle , ( b ) specify description of vehicle in relation to which subsection ( 1 ) do not apply , and ( c ) specify local service or description of local service in relation to which subsection ( 1 ) do not apply . ( 5 ) the date specify under subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) may not be before 1 January 2030 . ' ( 3 ) in section 39 ( 1 ) ( penalty ) — ( a ) omit the ' or ' at the end of paragraph ( c ) , and ( b ) after paragraph ( c ) insert — ' ( can ) operate a local service in contravention of section 35b ( 1 ) of this Act , or ' . ( 4 ) in section 81 ( 4 ) ( regulation and order ) , in paragraph ( b ) , after ' 35a ( 1 ) ' insert ' , 35b ( 3 ) ( b ) ' . " — ( Simon Lightwood . ) this new clause would require vehicle first register after a date to be specify in regulation ( which will not be before 1 January 2030 ) that be use to provide local service in Scotland to be zero - emission vehicle , subject to any exception make by regulation . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 1 — £ 2 bus fare scheme — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , establish a scheme to cap the fare for a single bus journey at £ 2 . ( 2 ) bus operator in England , include private company , franchisee , and local authority , may opt into a scheme establish under this section . ( 3 ) service operator under this scheme may receive preferential consideration for the allocation of financial grant under section 23 of this Act . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must review the term of any scheme establish under this section every three year . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may amend a scheme establish under this section by regulation make by statutory instrument . ( 6 ) a statutory instrument under this section may not be make unless a draft have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to introduce a scheme to cap bus fare at £ 2 . new clause 2 — extend eligibility for disabled bus pass — " the Secretary of State must remove the time restriction on the use of concessionary travel pass for disabled people within the English National Concessionary Travel Scheme . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to remove time restriction on the use of disabled concessionary travel pass . new clause 3 — Review of impact of bus fare on passenger patronage — " ( 1 ) local transport authority must conduct a review of the impact of bus fare on passenger patronage of bus service within their area . ( 2 ) any review must assess — ( a ) how fare level influence ridership trend ; ( b ) the social , economic , and environmental outcome of current fare structure ; ( c ) change which may improve accessibility and increase patronage ; and ( d ) the potential benefit to bus patronage of the simplification of ticket system . ( 3 ) a local transport authority must complete its first review under this section no later than six month after the passing of this Act , with subsequent review conduct at least once every three year . ( 4 ) the result of any review conduct under this section must be make publicly available . ( 5 ) in conduct a review under this section , local transport authority must consult relevant stakeholder , include public transport user , service operator , community representative , and any other stakeholder the authority deem relevant . " this new clause would require local transport authority to conduct regular review of the impact of bus fare on passenger patronage of bus service in their area . new clause 4 — duty to promote bus service — " ( 1 ) it be the general duty of any relevant authority oversee bus operation to promote bus service in their jurisdiction . ( 2 ) in fulfil this duty , authority may consider — ( a ) the potential benefit of make bus service economically competitive with other transport option ; ( b ) measure to enhance the environmental sustainability of bus service , include but not limit to reduce emission and support greener transport alternative ; ( c ) the broad social , economic , and environmental benefit of increase bus patronage ; ( d ) the need to reduce road congestion and improve urban mobility ; ( e ) opportunity to contribute to low air pollution and reduce greenhouse gas emission ; ( f ) the provision of affordable and accessible transport that promote social inclusion ; ( g ) the need to improve access to employment , education , health , and other essential service . ( 3 ) a relevant authority must publish a report every two year which outline step take to fulfil this duty , include — ( a ) progress in make bus service economically competitive and environmentally sustainable ; ( b ) the effectiveness of policy and measure aim at increase bus patronage ; ( c ) challenge face in promote bus service and propose or implement solution ; and ( d ) plan for future improvement in bus service . ( 4 ) relevant authority may consult with any relevant stakeholder , include transport operator , local business , and member of the public , which they deem to be expedient for the purpose of fulfil the duty outline in this section . " this new clause would place a duty on authority to promote bus service in their area . new clause 5 — report on accessibility of bus service — " ( 1 ) each relevant authority must prepare and publish an annual report assess the accessibility of bus service within its geographical boundary . ( 2 ) in this section , " relevant authority " include — ( a ) a county council in England ; ( b ) a district council in England ; ( c ) a combine authority establish under section 103 of the Local Democracy , Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 ; ( d ) a combine county authority establish under section 9 ( 1 ) of the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 ; ( e ) an integrated transport authority for an integrate transport area in England . ( 3 ) when publish a report under this section , the relevant authority must include a statement indicate whether , in its view , accessibility standard within its geographical boundary be satisfactory or unsatisfactory . ( 4 ) the report must also include — ( a ) an assessment of area with inadequate accessibility provision , identify specific location and the reason for accessibility shortcoming ; ( b ) proposal to improve bus route accessibility , include measure to address shortcoming and timeline for implementation ; ( c ) an evaluation of the effectiveness of previous accessibility improvement , include datum on their impact on disabled passenger and other affected group ; ( d ) a review of any barrier prevent the full implementation of accessibility improvement , with recommendation for address these barrier include any additional funding or resource require ; ( e ) evidence of consultation with relevant stakeholder , include organisation represent disabled people , transport provider , and local community , for the purpose of ensure that accessibility improvement meet the need of all passenger . ( 5 ) an authority ' s first report under subsection ( 1 ) must be publish within 12 month of the day on which this Act be pass . ( 6 ) relevant authority must ensure report under this section be make publicly accessible and that copy be submit to the Secretary of State . " this new clause would require relevant authority to publish annual report on the accessibility standard of bus service in their geographical boundary , include statement on whether those standard be satisfactory or unsatisfactory . new clause 6 — public sector equality duty — " in Part 1 of Schedule 19 to the Equality Act 2010 ( authority subject to public sector equality duty ) , at the appropriate place under the heading " Transport " insert — " a bus company provide service for the carriage of passenger by bus under a public service contract award under relevant provision of the Transport Act 1985 or subsequent legislation . " " this new clause would place bus company under the public sector equality duty . new clause 7 — young person ' s discount scheme — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must work with bus service operator to introduce a scheme , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , which provide a discount on bus fare for people age between 19 and 25 . ( 2 ) any scheme under this section must provide for a discount amount to a third of the price of relevant fare . " this new clause would introduce a discount scheme for young people , provide 19 - to 25 - year - old a third off bus fare . new clause 8 — Review of impact of vat change on demand - responsive bus service — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a report outline the impact of the vat system on the operation and rollout of demand - responsive bus service . ( 2 ) a report under subsection ( 1 ) must consider — ( a ) whether the current system of grant a zero - rate vat exemption to public service vehicle with 10 seat or more while subject small vehicle to vat on fare — ( i ) influence the choice of vehicle use for demand - responsive bus service ; ( ii ) have any other impact on the provision or operation of demand - responsive bus service , ( b ) the potential for vat exemption to facilitate the rollout of demand - responsive bus service . ( 3 ) in conduct the review under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must consult relevant stakeholder , include representative from the intelligent mobility sector , local authority , bus operator , and public transport user . ( 4 ) the report must be accompany by a statement from the Secretary of State on how the finding of the report will be address , include any further step to support the growth of demand - responsive bus service across the UK . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to publish a report on the impact of current vat rule on the operation and rollout of demand - responsive bus service . new clause 9 — free bus travel for unpaid carer — " the Secretary of State must work with local transport authority and operator to introduce a scheme , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , which — ( a ) provide free bus travel to those in receipt of carer allowance , and ( b ) support local transport authority to expand provision for other unpaid carer . " this new clause would require the Government to introduce a scheme to provide free bus travel for those in receipt of carer allowance and improve bus provision for carer . new clause 10 — Review of capacity of Bus Centre of Excellence — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a report detail — ( a ) the capacity of the Bus Centre of Excellence to provide training and support to local transport authority in establish and operate franchising scheme under the Act , and ( b ) additional resourcing require for this purpose . ( 2 ) a report under subsection ( 1 ) must include , but may not be limit to — ( a ) an assessment of the current operational capacity , staffing level , and expertise of the Bus Centre of Excellence ; ( b ) an evaluation of the effectiveness and reach of current training programme and support service provide to local transport authority on franchising , and their suitability for authority able to franchise service under the Act ; ( c ) an identification of specific additional financial , human , and technological resource require by the Bus Centre of Excellence to adequately deliver comprehensive training and ongoing support for all local transport authority consider or implement franchising scheme under the Act ; ( d ) an analysis of the impact of current capacity limitation on the pace and quality of franchising scheme development and implementation by local transport authority . ( 3 ) in conduct a review under this section , the Secretary of State must consult relevant stakeholder , include local transport authority , representative from the Bus Centre of Excellence , and bus operator . ( 4 ) any report under this section must be accompany by a statement from the Secretary of State on how the finding of the report will be address , include any step to ensure the Bus Centre of Excellence be adequately resource for its role in support bus franchising . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to publish a report which assess the capacity of the Bus Centre of Excellence to provide training and support to local transport authority for bus franchising . new clause 11 — Review of the impact of funding cut on bus service — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament a report detail the impact of funding cut to bus service since 2015 . ( 2 ) a report under subsection ( 1 ) must include , but may not be limit to — ( a ) an assessment of change in bus service provision , include frequency , coverage , and the extent of route reduction ; ( b ) an evaluation of how funding cut have affect access to public transport for resident , particularly in rural and low - income area ; ( c ) an analysis of the impact on passenger patronage and the financial stability of bus operator and local transport authority ; ( d ) a review of the broad social , economic , and environmental consequence of change in bus service provision due to funding reduction ; ( e ) recommendation for further action or policy that may be require to mitigate negative impact on bus service and ensure their sustainability and accessibility . ( 3 ) in conduct the review under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must consult relevant stakeholder , include — ( a ) local council and local transport authority ; ( b ) bus service operator ; ( c ) public transport user group and community representative ; ( d ) organisation represent person with disability ; and ( e ) relevant trade union and professional body . ( 4 ) any report must be accompany by a statement from the Secretary of State on how the finding of the report will be address , include any further step which be to be take to support bus service and mitigate negative impact . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to conduct a review of the impact of funding cut to bus service since 2015 . new clause 12 — Guidance on the development of franchising scheme — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , issue guidance for local transport authority on the development of a franchising scheme . ( 2 ) any guidance produce under this section must include specific information or guidance for local transport authority in — ( a ) rural area ; ( b ) coastal community ; and ( c ) suburban area . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to produce guidance for local transport authority on the development of franchising scheme . new clause 13 — power to convene for bus service coordination — " ( 1 ) a local transport authority whose area be in England may convene other agency and public body that have transport function and obligation for the purpose of coordinate bus service within , to , or from its area . ( 2 ) the power under subsection ( 1 ) include , but be not limit to , the power to convene nhs trust and other health body for the purpose of coordinate bus service with non - emergency patient transport service . ( 3 ) the purpose of convene under this section be to promote the efficient , integrated and accessible provision of bus service across different sector and to ensure that bus service meet the need of the community they serve . ( 4 ) in exercise the power under subsection ( 1 ) , a local transport authority must have regard to any guidance issue by the Secretary of State concern the coordination of transport service with other public service . ( 5 ) local transport authority must have regard to any guidance issue by the Secretary of State concern the exercise of function under this section . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must publish — ( a ) any guidance issue under subsection ( 5 ) , and ( b ) any variation or revocation of that guidance . " this new clause would empower local authority to convene other agency for the purpose of coordinate bus service . new clause 14 — Review of time restriction on concessionary travel pass — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within twelve month of the passing of this Act , conduct a review of the impact and feasibility of remove time restriction on the use of concessionary travel pass . ( 2 ) a review under this section must include , but may not be limit to — ( a ) an assessment of current usage pattern of concessionary travel pass and the impact of exist time restriction on passenger , particularly person with disability and old people ; ( b ) an evaluation of the potential social , economic , and environmental benefit of remove time restriction on the use of concessionary travel pass , include impact on access to essential health service , good and service , and social activity ; ( c ) an analysis of the financial implication for local transport authority and bus operator of remove time restriction , and potential funding mechanism to mitigate any adverse impact ; ( d ) investigation of passenger volume at different time and regional variation ; ( e ) recommendation for any legislative or policy change require to implement the removal of time restriction . ( 3 ) in conduct a review under this section , the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) local transport authority ; ( b ) bus operator ; ( c ) bus user and organisation represent people with disability and elderly people ; and ( d ) any other person or organisation whom the Secretary of State consider it appropriate to consult . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must lay a report on the finding of the review before both Houses of Parliament as soon as be practicable after the completion of the review . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to conduct a review of the impact of remove time restriction on the use of concessionary travel pass ( such as " Freedom Passes " ) . new clause 15 — rail bus link scheme : proposal — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , publish proposal for a scheme to increase bus service to railway station for community without exist local rail connection . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , when publish their proposal for a scheme under this section , also provide guidance accompany the scheme on — ( a ) the departmental funding which will be available for the purpose of the scheme ; ( b ) the qualifying criterion which will be use to assess eligibility for the scheme , which may include , but may not be limit to , insufficiency in funding , vehicle and equipment , workforce or expertise . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to bring forward proposal for a scheme to increase bus service to railway station for community without exist connection . new clause 16 — bus pass scheme for person in post - 16 education — " the Secretary of State must work with bus service operator to introduce a scheme , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , which provide a half - price discount on bus fare for person in post - 16 education . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to introduce a discount on bus fare for people in post - 16 education . new clause 17 — assessment to retrofit float bus stop — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must conduct and publish an assessment of all exist float bus stop for the purpose of — ( a ) determine the safety of the bus stop and their compliance with relevant safety and accessibility guidance ; ( b ) identify any retrofit necessary to ensure that float bus stop be fully accessible and design inclusively . ( 2 ) an assessment under subsection ( 1 ) must include a statement of the Secretary of State ' s intention to retrofit exist float bus stop in accordance with the finding of the assessment and relevant safety and accessibility standard . ( 3 ) any assessment or retrofit programme under this section must have regard to the need for float bus stop to allow room for passenger to board and alight directly between the bus and the pavement safely , without access a cycle lane . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to conduct a review of all exist float bus stop and their level of safety , and to state the Government ' s plan to implement necessary retrofit to ensure they be fully accessible and safe . new clause 21 — fare cap for school - only service — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , extend the £ 3 bus fare cap to school - only service . ( 2 ) where the £ 3 bus fare cap be subsequently increase or decrease , an equivalent change apply to the cap for school - only service . " new clause 22 — minimum bus service standard : review — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must conduct a review into the minimum bus service standard require for community in England . ( 2 ) the review conduct under this section must — ( a ) take into consideration the different requirement of community of differ population size across England , include rural and urban community , ( b ) explore the regulatory power and funding arrangement that would be require for Local Transport Authorities to implement guarantee minimum bus service for every community with more than three hundred resident across England . " new clause 23 — equality impact assessment : float bus stop and share - use bus boarder — " ( 1 ) within 12 month of this Act receive Royal Assent , the Secretary of State must undertake a full equality impact assessment of the Act so far as it relate to float bus stop and share - use bus boarder . ( 2 ) within a month of the assessment be complete , the Secretary of State must lay the equality impact assessment before both Houses of Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to undertake an equality impact assessment on the Act ' s provision , so far as they relate to float bus stop and share - use bus boarder , within 12 month of the Act become law . new clause 24 — Duty to commission a safety and accessibility review of float bus stop — " ( 1 ) within a year of this Act receive Royal Assent , the Secretary of State must commission an independent safety and accessibility review of float bus stop and share - use bus boarder , which route cycle track through and on the pavement , in England . ( 2 ) the review specify in subsection ( 1 ) must be undertake in collaboration with group represent disabled people in England . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to commission an independent review of the safety and accessibility of float bus stop and share bus boarder , and for the independent review to be undertake in collaboration with group represent disabled people in England . new clause 25 — franchising authority : joint forum — " ( 1 ) when operate a franchise scheme , the franchising authority must establish a joint forum with operator and trade union . ( 2 ) the purpose of the joint forum be to address bus service staffing and employment issue in the area cover by that franchising authority . " this new clause would require all local transport authority that introduce franchising scheme to establish a joint forum with trade union and operator . new clause 26 — consultation of trade union — " in section 138F of the Transport Act 2000 , after subsection ( 6 ) ( f ) insert — ( fa ) representative of relevant trade union , " . this new clause of the Transport Act 2000 would require local transport authority to consult trade union when propose to make an enhance partnership plan . new clause 27 — National Bus Forum — " ( 1 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must establish a National Bus Forum . ( 2 ) the purpose of the National Bus Forum be to address issue affect the provision of local bus service at industry - wide and strategic level . ( 3 ) the membership of the National Bus Forum must include — ( a ) HM Government , ( b ) trade union , ( c ) bus service operator , ( d ) local authority in England , and ( e ) any other body or person as the Secretary of State deem necessary . " this new clause would require the Government to establish a National Bus Forum whose membership include union , operator and local government , in line with a recommendation by the Transport Select Committee . new clause 28 — review into float bus stop — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must lay before both Houses of Parliament proposal for the prohibition of new float bus stop and share - use bus boarder , which route cycle track through and on the pavement , in England . ( 2 ) within a month of the proposal specify in subsection ( 1 ) be lay before Parliament , the Secretary of State must make time available in both Houses of Parliament for a vote on the proposal . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to review the safety of exist float bus stop and publish proposal for a ban on new float bus stop and share bus boarder within six month of the Act receive Royal Assent , and to provide time in both Houses of Parliament for a vote debate on the proposal . new clause 29 — Review of the provision of bus service to village in England — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within two year of the day on which this Act be pass , conduct a review of the level of bus service be provide to village in England . ( 2 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must assess — ( a ) the change in the level of service to village since the passing of this Act , ( b ) the number of village in England not serve by bus service , ( c ) demographic characteristic of village in relation to the level of bus service available , and ( d ) the impact of this Act on the provision of bus service to village in England . ( 3 ) in conduct the review under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must consult relevant stakeholder , include local council and transport authority . " new clause 30 — consultation : bus funding formula — " ( 1 ) within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must publish a report detail a propose bus funding formula for consultation . ( 2 ) the report publish under subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) the Secretary of State ' s rationale for propose that formula , ( b ) an evidence - base assessment of the distributional effect of that formula between various transport authority in England , and ( c ) any alternative funding formula that the Secretary of State have consider but choose not to pursue . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to publish a propose bus funding formula for consultation , include their reasoning , an assessment of its impact on different transport authority , and detail of alternative approach consider but not adopt . new clause 31 — poor performance of franchising — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament a statement of the Secretary of State ' s intention to take over the management of a service where , due to poor operational or financial management by the franchising authority or franchisee , there have be a persistent failure to deliver a service specify by contract . ( 2 ) a statement under subsection ( 1 ) must set out — ( a ) the circumstance under which the Secretary of State would take over the management of a service , and how these circumstance be to be identify ; ( b ) the action which the Secretary of State may take to redress the failure to deliver the service ; ( c ) the period of time for which the Secretary of State shall continue to manage the service . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to produce a statement of when or how the Government would intervene in case where franchised bus service be persistently fail due to poor operational or financial management . new clause 32 — requirement to consult and notify before service review discussion — " ( 1 ) a local transport authority or bus operator must not enter into formal discussion regard the alteration or withdrawal of a local bus service unless — ( a ) notice have be give to parish and district council affect by the change or withdrawal , and ( b ) a period of public consultation have be conclude . ( 2 ) the authority or operator must publish , before give notice and hold the public consultation — ( a ) the date on which formal discussion regard change to the service be propose to commence , ( b ) a summary of the reason why alteration or withdrawal be be consider , and ( c ) information on participate in the public consultation or submit representation on or alternative to the propose change . " this new clause would require local transport authority and bus operator to notify relevant council and initiate a public consultation before enter into discussion regard the alteration or withdrawal of a local bus service . new clause 33 — duty to promote and increase bus usage — " ( 1 ) a local transport authority must include in its local transport plan a strategy to promote and increase bus usage in its area . ( 2 ) the strategy must — ( a ) set out specific , measurable objective for increase bus ridership , ( b ) establish 2015 as the year against which progress will be assess , ( c ) include measure to encourage modal shift from private vehicle to bus , and ( d ) explain how the authority will monitor and report progress . " this new clause would require local transport authority to include in their transport strategy a specific plan for increase bus usage , include measurable objective and assessment against 2015 as a baseline year . new clause 34 — purpose : improvement of bus passenger service — " ( 1 ) the purpose of this Act be to improve the performance , accessibility , and quality of bus passenger service in Great Britain . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , in take any action under the provision of this Act , have regard to this purpose . " this new clause would place a duty on the Secretary of State to have regard to the purpose of the Act , namely the improved performance , quality , and accessibility of bus passenger service in Great Britain . new clause 35 — enhanced partnership : stakeholder forum — " ( 1 ) every local transport authority in England that have form an enhance partnership must , within six month of this Act receive Royal Assent , establish a stakeholder forum to monitor the delivery of the enhance partnership . ( 2 ) the forum establish by subsection ( 1 ) must meet at least once every three month , and its membership must include trade union represent bus worker , passenger group , and local business . ( 3 ) where two or more local transport authority be work together in an enhanced partnership scheme , a single forum should be establish to meet the duty set out in subsection ( 1 ) . " new clause 36 — Concessionary travel for 16 and 17 year old in education or training — " ( 1 ) the Transport Act 2000 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 150 insert — ' 150a free bus travel for 16 – 17 year old in education or training ( 1 ) all local transport authority in England must , within twelve month of this Act receive Royal Assent , establish a concessionary travel scheme to provide free bus travel for person age 16 or 17 and who be — ( a ) in full - time education , or ( b ) undertaking training on a course or programme that have be approve by Skills England . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation set out eligibility , administration and reimbursement arrangement for this duty . ' " new clause 37 — Secretary of State duty to ensure service for certain town — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that every town in England be serve by bus service which — ( a ) operate seven day a week , and ( b ) serve specify location . ( 2 ) in carry out the duty under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must consult — ( a ) the relevant local authority for the area to which the duty apply , ( b ) the integrate care board for the area to which the duty apply , and ( c ) resident , or organisation represent resident , of the area to which the duty apply for the purpose of determine the specify location which must be serve . " new clause 39 — Use of bus pass on cross - border journey ( Wales ) — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , publish guidance for — ( a ) bus service operator , and ( b ) bus passenger , on the functioning of bus ticket and pass for passenger travel between destination in England via Wales . ( 2 ) Guidance publish under this section must allow for passenger who wish to travel between two destination in England on journey which require a change of service in Wales to use ticket or pass purchase in England which cover the journey between the two destination in England . ( 3 ) before publish guidance under this section , the Secretary of State must consult with the Welsh Government and any other party whom the Secretary of State consider it appropriate to consult . " new clause 40 — use of bus pass on cross - border journey ( Scotland ) — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , publish guidance for — ( a ) bus service operator , and ( b ) bus passenger , on the functioning of bus ticket and pass for passenger travel between destination in England via Scotland . ( 2 ) Guidance publish under this section must allow for passenger who wish to travel between two destination in England on journey which require a change of service in Scotland to use ticket or pass purchase in England which cover the journey between the two destination in England . ( 3 ) before publish guidance under this section , the Secretary of State must consult with the Scottish Government and any other party whom the Secretary of State consider it appropriate to consult . " new clause 41 — driver access to the Confidential Incident Reporting and Analysis System ( CIRAS ) — in the Transport Act 2000 , after section 144E ( insert by section 28 of this Act ) insert — ' 144F access to the Confidential Incident Reporting and Analysis System for driver of psv ( 1 ) local transport authority must ensure that service operator provide driver of a PSV be use under a licence to provide a local bus service with access to the Confidential Incident Reporting and Analysis System ( CIRAS ) . ( 2 ) if service operator do not fulfil the requirement under subsection ( 1 ) to provide access to CIRAS for driver , the local authority may revoke the service permit . ' " this new clause would ensure that service operator provide driver with access to CIRAS ( the Confidential Incident Reporting and Analysis System ) . new clause 42 — bus safety performance datum — " in the Transport Act 2000 , after section 144E ( insert by section 28 of this Act ) insert — ' 144F Bus safety performance datum ( 1 ) local transport authority must — ( a ) publish bus safety performance datum online at minimum interval of every quarter , and ( b ) annually submit bus safety performance datum to an independent auditor for the purpose of the independent auditor assess the datum ' s accuracy . ( 2 ) the independent auditor carry out an assessment under subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) must publish a report on the datum which must be make available on the local authority ' s website . ' " this new clause would require local transport authority to regularly publish datum on bus safety performance , and for that datum to be assess for accuracy annually by an independent auditor . new clause 43 — permit driving time for driver of psv be use under the licence to provide a local service — " in section 96 of the Transport Act 1968 ( permit drive time and period of duty ) , at the end of subsection ( 1 ) insert ' , subject to subsection ( 1A ) . ( 1A ) driver of public service vehicle ( PSV ) be use under a licence to provide a local bus service must not on any work day drive a PSV for period amount in the aggregate to more than nine hour . ' " this new clause would change the permit driving time for bus driver from ten hour to nine hour ( in aggregate ) to align with the permit driving time for HGV driver . new clause 44 — concessionary travel for people under the age of 22 — " in the Transport Act 2000 , after section 150 insert — ' 150a free bus travel for people under the age of 22 ( 1 ) all local transport authority in England must , within twelve month of this Act receive Royal Assent , establish a concessionary travel scheme to provide free bus travel for person under the age of 22 . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation set out eligibility , administration and reimbursement arrangement for this duty . ' " this new clause would require transport authority to provide free bus travel for child and young people who be under the age of 22 . new clause 45 — minimum level of off - peak and nighttime bus service — " ( 1 ) it be a requirement for local transport authority to provide a minimum level of bus service for individual reliant on off - peak and nighttime transport to local and regional employment centre . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of this Act receive Royal Assent , commission each local authority in England to undertake an audit of the minimum off - peak and nighttime bus service require by those work in key employment centre in their respective area . ( 3 ) for the purpose of the audit specify in subsection ( 2 ) , local authority must consult with bus company , trade union , employer and member of the public . ( 4 ) where more than one local authority be responsible for the delivery , or funding , of local transport service in their respective locality , the audit specify in subsection ( 2 ) must be undertake as a partnership between the relevant local authority . ( 5 ) within three month of be commission by the Secretary of State to undertake the audit under subsection ( 2 ) , each local authority , or partnership of local authority , must publish — ( a ) the finding of its audit , and ( b ) proposal for deliver the off - peak and nighttime service identify by the audit as necessary to fulfil the requirement lay out by subsection ( 1 ) . ( 6 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) a key employment centre mean a city , a town with either a population above 50 , 000 people or whose economic output represent more than 10 per cent of that local authority ' s economic activity . " this new clause establish a legal duty for local authority to ensure a minimum level of off - peak and nighttime bus service to local employment centre , require the Government to commission local authority to undertake an audit of local service requirement and produce proposal on provide a minimum level of service . new clause 46 — duty to consider funding for service enhancement — " ( 1 ) a local transport authority in England must consider whether , when and how to use appropriate public funding to improve exist local bus service . ( 2 ) in exercise the duty under this section , the authority must have regard to — ( a ) the potential for increase ridership ; and ( b ) the overall sustainability of the network . ( 3 ) service improvement under subsection ( 1 ) may include — ( a ) increase the frequency of exist service ; ( b ) extend operating hour ; ( c ) improve the reliability of service or their integration with other mode of transport ; or ( d ) extend the route of local service . " this new clause would place a duty on local transport authority to consider use appropriate public fund to improve exist bus service where this would grow ridership or improve the sustainability of the overall network , and set out specific factor to be take into account when make such decision . new clause 47 — English National Concessionary Travel Scheme : Companion pass — " the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of this Act receive Royal Assent , bring forward proposal to extend the English National Concessionary Travel Scheme to include Companion Passes for disabled person who require the assistance of a designate companion in order to use the bus network " . new clause 48 — free travel for uniformed police officer — " ( 1 ) the holder of a PSV operator ' s licence must permit a police officer in uniform to travel without charge on any local service which have one or more stop place in England . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , make a statement on option for compensate operator of local service for any cost that arise or revenue lose fulfil the duty under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) in this section — ' local service ' have the same meaning as in section 2 of the Transport Act 1985 ; ' police officer ' mean a member of a police force maintain for a police area in England and Wales or a special constable appoint for such an area ; and ' PSV operator ' s licence ' have the same meaning as in section 82 of the Public Passenger Vehicles Act 1981 . " this new clause would permit a police officer in uniform to travel without charge on any local bus service in England . Amendment 58 , in clause 1 , page 1 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) . government amendment 31 . amendment 3 , in clause 9 , page 6 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( A1 ) Section 123b of the Transport Act 2000 ( assessment of propose scheme ) be amend in accordance with subsection ( A2 ) to ( A4 ) . ( A2 ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) omit ' and ' ; ( a3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) , after ' action ' insert ' , and ( c ) assess the adequacy of central government funding to support the provision of bus service under the scheme . ( 2A ) the assessment under subsection ( 2 ) ( c ) must include — ( a ) an evaluation of whether available funding be sufficient to meet the project cost of the franchising scheme , and ( b ) an analysis of the funding require to maintain or improve service level across all affected community . ' ( a4 ) after subsection ( 6 ) insert — ' ( 6a ) an assessment under this section must be make publicly available and submit to the Secretary of State . ' " this amendment to the Transport Act 2000 would require the Secretary of State to assess the adequacy of central government funding to support the provision of bus service under franchised scheme . amendment 4 , in clause 9 , page 6 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 11 ) the Secretary of State must , no later than three month after the day on which this section come into force , lie before Parliament regulation specify the qualification and criterion require for a person to be consider an ' approve person ' for the purpose of section 123d of the Transport Act 2000 . ( 12 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 11 ) may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . " this be a probe amendment to inquire whether the Secretary of State intend to issue the criterion for the " approve person " role in the near future . a report from an approve person must occur before a franchised scheme can go ahead . amendment 22 , in clause 10 , page 6 , line 38 , after " 2010 ) " insert " , or with special educational need ( within the meaning give by section 20 of the Children and Families Act 2014 ) , " . this amendment would require local transport authority wish to proceed with a franchising scheme to consult bus user with special educational need , or group that represent they . Amendment 25 , in clause 10 , page 7 , line 3 , after " fit ; " insert — " ( db ) relevant train operating company and other public transport operator , for the purpose of ensure coordination during peak travel time and tourist season ; " . this amendment would add other transport operator to the list of party who be to be consult when make or vary a franchising scheme . amendment 26 , in clause 11 , page 7 , leave out line 10 . this amendment would retain the requirement for consultation when vary a franchising scheme . government amendment 32 and 33 . amendment 66 , in clause 14 , page 10 , line 5 , after " service " insert " along with a description of the criterion or methodology use to determine which service be consider socially necessary " . amendment 5 , in clause 14 , page 10 , line 11 , at end insert — " ( 4b ) when the list of socially necessary local service require by subsection ( 3 ) ( ba ) be review or amend , the relevant authority or authority must — ( a ) assess the overall adequacy of the exist network of local service in their area or combined area in enable passenger to access essential health setting , education , good and service , economic opportunity , and social activity ; ( b ) identify any gap in the provision of socially necessary local service across the network and where exist service be insufficient , absent or cause a material adverse effect on passenger ' ability to access those good , service , opportunity , or activity ; ( c ) describe what far action the authority or authority intend to take to address any identify gap include , where appropriate , proposal for new or altered service , with timeline for implementation , and consideration of funding or alternative delivery model . ( 4c ) the authority or authority must publish any assessment and proposal make under subsection ( 4b ) after consult — ( a ) person operate local service in the area or combined area ; ( b ) user of local service ; ( c ) nhs provider ; ( d ) education provider ; ( e ) local employer and business ; ( f ) people with disability ; and ( g ) any other person whom the authority or authority consider it appropriate to consult . " this amendment would insert into the Transport Act 2000 a requirement for local transport authority to review the adequacy of local service when consider change to the list of socially necessary local service . amendment 2 , in clause 14 , page 10 , line 20 , leave out " and " and insert — " ( iv ) health care service , include , but not limit to , hospital or GP surgery , and ( v ) school and college . " this amendment would ensure that primary health care service , school and college be consider as " socially necessary local service " . amendment 60 , in clause 14 , page 10 , line 23 , after " activity . " insert — " ( 16 ) a service which be abolish in the 15 year before the day on which the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Act 2025 be pass may also be consider a socially necessary local service for the purpose of this section and section 138c . " this amendment would mean that previous bus service could be consider as socially necessary local service . amendment 6 , in clause 14 , page 11 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , lie before both Houses of Parliament proposal for a scheme that would guarantee a service for socially necessary service where — ( a ) no operator have implement the service for a period of six month , and ( b ) the local transport authority be unable to run the service . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must , when publish their proposal for a scheme under this section , also provide guidance on how the scheme would be fund , include the criterion which would be use for assess qualification for the scheme . ( 7 ) within a month of produce the proposal , the Secretary of State must ensure that time be make available in both Houses of Parliament for a substantive debate on the proposal . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to bring forward proposal for a scheme that would guarantee service for route identify as socially necessary where no operator have implement the service and the local transport authority do not have the capacity to do so . amendment 7 , in clause 14 , page 11 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) where a socially necessary route have be identify in accordance with section 138A ( 15 ) of the Transport Act 2000 , and no alternative operator have implement the service within a period of six month , the relevant local authority must take reasonable step to implement a service on the socially necessary route as far as be reasonably practicable . ( 6 ) where a local authority have establish a socially necessary service in the absence of alternative operator , the local authority must publish a report on the establishment and operability of the service within six month , which should include , but not be limit to — ( a ) the scope and nature of the service ; ( b ) the estimate operating cost of the service and any identify funding gap ; ( c ) the impact of the service on local accessibility and transport need ; ( d ) a timeline for the operation of the service ; ( e ) where the local authority be unable to meet the financial burden of operate the service within six month of establish that service , a statement specify the extent of the financial shortfall . ( 7 ) where a local authority make a statement under subsection ( 6 ) ( e ) , the new burden doctrine apply to the provision of this section and the Secretary of State must consider provide appropriate financial support to the local authority to ensure the service can be deliver . ( 8 ) within six month of the passing of the Bus Services Act 2025 , the Secretary of State must publish guidance on what fund will be available for the purpose of subsection ( 7 ) . ( 9 ) a service establish under these provision be a local service operate by a local government bus company as define by section 22 ( 5 ) . " this amendment would place a duty on a relevant local authority to implement a socially necessary service should alternative operator fail to do so , with provision for financial support if need and the possibility of transfer responsibility to an alternative operator once the service be establish . amendment 8 , in clause 14 , page 11 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must , at interval not exceed six month , lie before Parliament a statement set out — ( a ) the number of socially necessary local service in England ; ( b ) the number of socially necessary route that have their whole service cancel ; ( c ) the average frequency of bus on socially necessary local service ; ( d ) the average number of day a week that socially necessary local service be in operation ; ( e ) total ridership on socially necessary local service ; and ( f ) the step the Government be take to improve the provision and reliability of socially necessary local service , their frequency , and bus ridership . ( 6 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 5 ) , ' socially necessary local service ' have the same meaning as in section 138A of the Transport Act 2000 . ( 7 ) each statement lay under this section must include datum cover the six - month period immediately precede the date of the statement . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to provide Parliament with bi - annual statement include information of socially necessary local bus service and step the Government plan to take to address any identify issue . amendment 23 , in clause 14 , page 11 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must conduct an assessment of the impact of end the £ 2 bus fare cap on passenger ' ability to access socially necessary local service identify in accordance with section 138A of the Transport Act 2000 . " Amendment 27 , in clause 21 , page 16 , line 5 , after " comfort " insert " ; — ( d ) identify what , if any , provision be make to facilitate access to child and adolescent mental health service and other community - base mental health service not attach to hospital . " this amendment would require bus network accessibility plan to consider access to CAMHS and other community - base mental health service . amendment 24 , in clause 22 , page 17 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) in relation to the award of a local service contract by one or more franchising authority pursuant to a franchising scheme , any contract to be award pursuant to that franchising scheme shall not be an exempted contract under the Procurement Act 2023 unless award to a local government bus company that be an Exempted Local Government Bus Company and Schedule 2 to the Procurement Act 2023 shall be construe accordingly . ( 4b ) an Exempted Local Government Bus Company be a local government bus company as define by subsection ( 5 ) and which be in business provide local service on 17 December 2024 . ( 4c ) in section 3 of the Procurement Act 2023 ( public contract ) , after subsection ( 6 ) insert — ' ( 7 ) section 18 of the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Act 2025 restrict the circumstance in which local service contract award to a local government bus company be to be regard as exempt contract . ' " this amendment ensure that any contract award under a franchising scheme by one or more franchising authority can not be exempt from the Procurement Act 2023 unless it be award to a local government bus company that meet specific criterion - specifically one that be actively provide local service as of December 17 2024 , and align with the provision outline in section 18 ( 5 ) of the Act . amendment 28 , in clause 23 , page 18 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) Guidance issue under subsection ( 6 ) must require local transport authority , when make grant to operator , to take into account factor relevant to the provision of service in their area , include but not limit to — ( a ) the rurality of the area or area to be serve ; ( b ) the age profile of person in the area or area to be serve ; ( c ) measure of deprivation in the area or area to be serve ; and ( d ) the percentage of person with disability in the area or area to be serve . " this amendment would require guidance issue by the Secretary of State on the making of grant to bus operator to require authority to consider factor relate to the demographic of the area or area to be serve when make grant . amendment 29 , in clause 23 , page 18 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) the guidance must include information on when and how local transport authority and mayor may give grant for the purpose of replace or otherwise provide for bus service in rural or isolated area when a socially necessary local bus service have be withdraw , include detail of what Government support or funding will be available for such purpose . " amendment 61 , in clause 23 , page 19 , line 3 , after " environment , " insert — " ( ba ) about the operation of concessionary fare scheme by the local transport authority , " . this amendment would include information about concessionary fare scheme in the guidance about the making of grant by local transport authority issue by the Secretary of State . amendment 9 , in clause 23 , page 19 , line 13 , at end insert — " 154b consideration of operator size in grant allocation ( 1 ) when exercise power under section 154A , a local transport authority in England may have regard to the size of the operator when determine the amount of a grant and the condition which may be attach to it . ( 2 ) in particular , local transport authority may — ( a ) give priority to small operator for the purpose of ensure the sustainability and diversity of local transport service , ( b ) adopt measure to protect small operator from disproportionate financial burden or competition , and ( c ) take into account the financial and operational capacity of small operator to meet service demand . ( 3 ) when determine what constitute a small operator , a local transport authority may consider — ( a ) the size of the operator ' s fleet , ( b ) the number of employee employ by the operator , and ( c ) the operator ' s annual turnover or other financial capacity . " this amendment would enable local transport authority to prioritise small transport operator when allocate grant . government amendment 35 to 38 . amendment 10 , in clause 28 , page 25 , line 12 , after " nuisance " insert " , include sustained anti - social auditory disturbance " . this amendment would allow local transport authority to prohibit disruptive anti - social form of noise such as from telephone through byelaw . amendment 59 , in clause 28 , page 25 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) a local transport authority whose area be in England , or two or more authority act jointly , shall have the power to make byelaw prohibit any person on the bus network from , to the annoyance of any person — ( a ) singing ; or ( b ) use any instrument , article or equipment for the production or reproduction of sound . ( 2b ) local transport authority in England must , within twelve month of this Act receive Royal Assent , make byelaw in accordance with the power provide in subsection ( 2A ) . ( 2C ) Bus service operator , include those deliver service as part of a franchising , concessionary , or other scheme , must work with local police force to ensure the effective enforcement of byelaw make under subsection ( 2A ) and ( 2B ) . " government amendment 39 to 42 . amendment 18 , in clause 30 , page 32 , line 19 , leave out " may " and insert " must " . this amendment would require the Secretary of State to produce guidance about stop place . amendment 64 , in clause 30 , page 32 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( aa ) promote and facilitate access to toilet facility for passenger and driver , " . this amendment would require guidance issue by the Secretary of State under this section to cover the provision of toilet facility . amendment 11 , in clause 30 , page 32 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( aa ) the location , design and maintenance of service information display at stop place , include the provision of real time arrival information ; " . this amendment would mean that guidance on the accessibility of stop place can include guidance relate to the provision of information at the stop place . amendment 12 , in clause 30 , page 33 , line 4 , leave out " have regard to " and insert " take reasonable step to implement " . this amendment would ensure that authority list in subsection ( 6 ) take reasonable step to ensure that disability guidance issue by the Secretary of State be implement . amendment 13 , in clause 30 , page 33 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) Guidance issue by the Secretary of State under subsection ( 1 ) must include provision for the body list in subsection ( 6 ) to support the development of training programme for relevant staff which must address the content of the guidance issue under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 6b ) Guidance and training provide under this section must also be make available to bus operating company , who must ensure that relevant staff undertake training programme align with the guidance issue by the Secretary of State . " this amendment would require relevant body to support the development of training programme for relevant staff which must address the content of disability guidance issue by the Secretary of State . Amendment 19 , in clause 30 , page 33 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) the body list in subsection ( 6 ) may depart from such guidance only if — ( a ) it consider that there be exceptional local circumstance which justify the departure ; and ( b ) it have obtain the write approval of the Secretary of State to the propose departure . ( 6b ) the body list in subsection ( 6 ) must pause the construction of any stop place design as a float bus stop or share bus stop boarder , and must not proceed with construction , until the Secretary of State have issue guidance under this section relate specifically to the design and use of float island bus stop and share bus stop boarder . " this amendment would ensure that list body would be oblige to follow the guidance except in exceptional circumstance , and would require those body to pause construction on new float bus stop and share bus - stop boarder until guidance have be publish . amendment 20 , in clause 31 , page 34 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( 9 ) for the purpose of this section , ' float bus stop ' be also to be understand as include ' share bus - stop boarder ' . " this amendment would ensure that the guidance address both float bus stop and share bus boarder . amendment 21 , in clause 32 , page 34 , line 39 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) an authority which be subject to a duty under section 30 ( 6 ) or section 31 ( 7 ) ( duty to have regard to guidance ) must maintain a record of the location of float island bus stop and share bus stop boarder . ( 1b ) the record require under subsection ( 1A ) must specify the geographic location of each stop ; the type of stop ( float bus stop or share bus stop boarder ) , and the date on which the stop be instal or modify . " this amendment would gather datum on float bus stop and share bus boarder . amendment 14 , in clause 34 , page 37 , line 18 , after " 2003 " insert — " ( c ) any form of domestic abuse , as define in the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , beyond offence or behaviour cover by ( a ) or ( b ) . " this amendment would ensure that training for bus driver on identify crime include all form of domestic abuse . government amendment 43 . amendment 15 , in clause 34 , page 38 , line 16 , at end insert — " 144H Training for senior management on disability awareness and accessibility ( 1 ) relevant party must ensure that relevant person in senior management role undertake training concern disability awareness and accessibility . ( 2 ) the relevant party be — ( a ) holder of a PSV operator ' s licence ; ( b ) local transport authority whose area be in England where those party be involve in the organisation or provision of local or school bus service . ( 3 ) the training require under subsection ( 1 ) must be design to enhance the understanding of senior management regard — ( a ) the need and experience of person with disability when use local bus service ; ( b ) legal obligation relate to accessibility and equality in relation to bus service ; and ( c ) strategy for promote independent travel , safety , and reasonable comfort for person with disability on local service and at bus facility . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section , a person be in a ' senior management ' role if they hold a director - level position or have another senior executive or managerial role in an organisation which provide local or school bus service and have significant responsibility for strategic decision - making , policy development , or operational oversight concern bus service within the organisation . ( 5 ) the training require under subsection ( 1 ) must be complete — ( a ) within six month of appointment to a senior management role and at least once in every five - year period thereafter ; ( b ) in the case of person who be in relevant senior management role at the time of the passing of the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Act 2025 , at least once in every five - year period . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation require holder of PSV operator ' licence and local transport authority to keep such record relate to their compliance with the requirement of this section as be specify or describe in the regulation . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State may issue guidance about compliance with the requirement of this section and of any regulation make under it , and the holder of PSV operator ' s licence and local transport authority must have regard to any such guidance . " this amendment would require relevant senior manager to regularly undertake training on disability awareness and accessibility . government amendment 44 and 45 . amendment 62 , in clause 37 , page 41 , line 26 , leave out from " after " to " and " in line 27 and insert " 1 January 2027 , " . this amendment , along with Amendment 63 , would mean that operator of local bus service may not use vehicle register after 1 January 2027 which produce the emission specify in subsection ( 3 ) ( c ) . amendment 1 , in clause 37 , page 41 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) a vehicle do not fall within subsection ( 3 ) if it previously have the tailpipe emission list in subsection ( 3 ) ( c ) but have since be convert to a zero - emission drive train . " this amendment would qualify bus that have repowere from run on fossil fuel to zero emission technology to be consider as zero emission vehicle for the purpose of this Bill . amendment 63 , in clause 37 , page 42 , leave out line 1 and 2 . amendment 30 , in clause 37 , page 42 , line 2 , leave out " 2030 " and insert — " 2028 in relation to vehicle to be use in area contain all or part of a National Landscape , or 1 January 2030 in relation to all other vehicle , and the Secretary of State may by regulation provide any — ( a ) financial remuneration , or ( b ) specific guidance ( or both ) that they deem necessary to assist local authority in meet the deadline specify in this section . " Amendment 16 , in clause 37 , page 42 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 6 ) the provision of this section apply to any mayoral combine authority in England , where " mayoral combine authority " mean an authority establish under the Cities and Local Government Devolution Act 2016 . " this amendment would clarify that the provision of section 151A on zero - emission vehicle apply to mayoral combined authority . amendment 17 , in clause 37 , page 42 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 6 ) within six month of the passing of the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Act 2025 , the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a report detail how adequately and easily local transport authority have be , or will be able to , access funding to replace pollute bus with zero - emission bus for the purpose of meet the requirement of this section . ( 7 ) a report under subsection ( 6 ) must include , but may not be limit to — ( a ) an assessment of current funding mechanism available for the transition to zero - emission bus , include grant , loan , and other financial incentive ; ( b ) an evaluation of the sufficiency of available funding to meet the project cost and timeline for local transport authority to achieve a zero - emission fleet by 2035 ; ( c ) a review of the barrier and challenge face by local transport authority in access exist funding , include administrative burden , eligibility criterion , and capacity constraint ; ( d ) recommendation for improve the adequacy and accessibility of funding to accelerate the replacement of pollute bus with zero - emission bus . ( 8 ) in conduct the review under subsection ( 6 ) , the Secretary of State must consult relevant stakeholder , include local transport authority , bus operator and manufacturer of zero - emission vehicle . ( 9 ) any report under this section must be accompany by a statement from the Secretary of State on how the finding of the report will be address , include any further step to ensure sufficient and accessible funding for the transition to zero - emission bus . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to publish a report which assess the adequacy and accessibility of funding available to local transport authority to transition their bus fleet to zero - emission vehicle . the report must include an evaluation of current funding mechanism , barrier to access , and recommendation for improvement . government amendment 46 to 50 , 34 and 51 to 57 . I have the pleasure of opening today ' s debate on Report . I look forward to a lively discussion on the Bill and thank member of the House who be here to offer their view and speak to amendment that have be table . before I move to the Government ' s amendment , I will briefly recap why the Bill be before the House , speak to the Government ' s wide reform of bus and provide an update on progress since Committee . the Government be seek to deliver well bus service . that mean grow patronage and ensure that more people can use the bus . it also mean leader have power to shape the service in their community and bus service that help to drive opportunity across the country ; and safe , reliable , affordable , inclusive and integrated bus service . the measure in the Bill work towards this vision , as do the wide reform announce by the Government to bus funding , the recent spending review commitment and the extension of the £ 3 bus fare cap to March 2027 . together , these form an ambitious set of intervention design to reverse long - term trend and improve bus service . consistent with this objective , and follow engagement with my hon . friend the Members for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) and for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , the forthcoming update to the statutory franchising guidance will confirm expectation that franchising authority consult representative of prospective user and that the statutory guidance on stop place will set out the Department ' s expectation for how safe and more accessible stop place can encourage an increase in bus ridership by provide facility that people can and want to use . in Committee , there be a wide - range and detailed debate across the Bill ' s measure and bus policy more generally . I commit to provide an update on report on how my Department be work with local authority , Active Travel England and bus operator to raise awareness of certain cyclist ' behaviour around float bus stop . active Travel England will share material with council to promote awareness of the requirement for people cycle to give way to bus passenger at crossing point . this be alongside exist guidance on how to engage community and design safe and accessible walking , wheeling and cycling infrastructure . transport for London be carry out a campaign to raise awareness of the highway code , with a particular focus on the rule design to protect people walk , cycling and motorcycling . the campaign highlight five key rule that protect at - risk road user and apply where there be poor compliance and understanding of the rule , include some of the rule that be update in 2022 . this include material design to remind road user , particularly cyclist , to give way at crossing at bus stop . active Travel England and the Department have be involve in this work with the intention of share material with local authority outside London in due course . furthermore , in Committee , I set out that my Department will ask local authority to undertake an audit of exist site , alongside set out to they our expectation on a pause . active Travel England ' s additional research include a national audit of float bus stop . I advise authority to work collaboratively with ATE , so we can gain an accurate picture of where and what type of float bus stop be in use , and therefore ensure that future guidance be comprehensive . the Department will publish statutory guidance on the design of float bus stop within three month of Royal Assent . that will be support by additional research into the design of exist float bus stop and how they can be improve to ensure they be accessible . active Travel England have provide funding to council and encourage they to review exist design against the upcoming guidance and , where require , implement remediation work . both audits of bus stop bypass and remediation work can be fund use the active travel funding as an essential maintenance activity . I now move to the Government amendment . new clause 38 have be bring forward at the request of the Scottish Government . it reflect close collaboration between the UK Government and the Scottish Government . it will help provide great certainty of the future demand in Scotland . I be committed to ensure that the government continue to work together as they move towards the full transition to zero emission bus . the measure effectively replicate the provision in clause 37 . it will have the effect of restrict the use of new non - zero emission bus on relevant service in Scotland . power provide to Scottish Ministers under clause 38 be analogous to those give to the Secretary of State under clause 37 . amendment 45 to 50 be consequential amendment that be minor and technical in nature or relate to make transitional or save provision . the measure require legislative consent from the Scottish Parliament and , if necessary , the Government will return with an update during ping - pong . amendment 53 be a technical amendment that provide a clarification on the franchising variation procedure in the Bill ' s schedule . specifically , it clarify the variation procedure that apply when a franchising authority wish to vary two minor aspect of a franchising scheme — namely the additional facility , such as depot and ticket facility , to be provide in the franchising area , and the description of the authority ' s plan for consultation on scheme effectiveness . that will help give franchising authority clarity on the process and ensure that relevant party be consult on such change . amendment 57 provide further detail on who should be consult when a franchising authority vary plan for consultation on scheme effectiveness include in its scheme , include Welsh Ministers , other affected local authority , relevant organisation and the Passengers ' Council . amendment 31 to 34 , 51 , 52 and 54 to 56 be minor and technical amendment to remove unnecessary wording . the final set of Government amendment be number 35 to 45 . these be minor and technical amendment that remove data protection override previously insert into the Bill . the override be no long necessary as the Data ( Use and Access ) Act 2025 receive Royal Assent on 19 June 2025 , and these matter be now cover automatically by virtue of that legislation . I call the shadow Minister . I be slightly surprised to be call so early , but I be delighted to speak in the debate . this will be an interesting debate . I be delighted that there be so much interest from Back Benchers . it be interesting to note that the Bill be primarily focus on process rather than passenger . I try to work out why that be and come to the conclusion that it be , in fact , steep in Labour ' s political ideology — the ideology that the state be well at run thing than private business — link with the separate issue that it have a deep suspicion of the profit motive . in some of its clause , which we will come on to in a moment , the Bill hark back to the 1960 and to municipal bus company after the second world war . this feel like the happy place of the Labour party . I welcome the shadow Minister to his place . my question be on his comment on profitability . part of the challenge we have find in Essex be that route that be consider not profitable be be cut , which mean that rural community be feel isolated . do he recognise that if bus service be base purely on profitability , they could be lose , and that that be an issue ? the hon . member be quite right , of course . I be not suggest that bus service should be only for profit . he will know that Essex county council have an enhance partnership agreement ; it have a relationship with for - profit provider , but have negotiate that it will pay extra for social journey . he will also note that Essex have have more growth in its passenger number than any of the franchise operation . in particular , it have have more passenger growth than the Bee Network in Greater Manchester , the organisation that the Bill largely seek to replicate . the Bill have a deep suspicion of the profit motive and focus on process , ignore what the real purpose of the legislation should be . the House of Lords identify this lacuna in the drafting , and rectify it with a purpose clause , which be clause 1 when the Bill be consider in Committee . it say that the Act should " improve the performance , accessibility and quality of bus passenger service in Great Britain . " that be not a particularly high bar , or particularly onerous , because the Secretary of State merely have to have regard to those objective . I would not have think that be particularly challenge for the Government . however , it be too much for they , and they remove that purpose clause in Committee . new clause 34 , which be in my name and that of the shadow Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) , seek to reinstate that very reasonable clause . it would ensure that when we discuss the improvement of bus service , at the front and centre of our mind be the performance , accessibility and quality of bus service , so that we put the passenger first . this Bill , despite the explanation give by the Minister a moment ago , remain weak on protection for the disabled , the partially sight and the blind . that be a huge concern in Committee . there have be a lot of concern about this in the disabled community — concern particularly focus on float bus stop , and bus stop with share use border . I note that the Minister say that he be look at have guidance note on design , and that there should be a campaign to remind cyclist in particular of the highway code . I do not think that be good enough . I do not think a design tweak could be make to a float bus stop that would provide partially sight and blind user with the security that they richly deserve when use bus service . an educational campaign to remind cyclist of their duty under the highway code would not do any harm , and I suggest that the Government do it , but it would not be the solution in its own right . we have have warm word from the Minister , both in Committee and today , but we need action . new clause 28 would give the Government six month to prepare proposal to prohibit the creation of new float bus stop . the Government appear to be deaf to the blind , and not prepared to take effective action on this point . the Government be also be weak on protection for bus passenger more generally . we want legislation that put bus user first , both as regard accessibility , which I have mention , and protection against antisocial behaviour . we be not ask much — we be just ask that the legislation afford bus user the same protection that rail passenger benefit from . the Government have an opportunity to support those objective , and I hope that the Minister will acknowledge that that be the direction that they should take . I thank the hon . gentleman for draw attention to the need to provide for disabled bus user . my amendment would require local authority seek a franchise to take people with special educational need into account , and to consult they and the group that represent they . do he agree with that proposal ? the hon . Lady will know , from read the Hansard of Committee proceeding , what time and effort the official opposition put into support the aspiration to have increase accessibility across disability and special educational need , so I be very supportive in principle of her amendment ' s aim . I have address accessibility , but what about price and increase bus usage ? we know from our experience of operate bus service over the past decade that price be one of the big factor affect patronage . in the previous Administration , the Conservatives put forward a £ 2 bus fare cap , and it be enormously successful . apart from anything else , it be hugely popular , but it also aid the recovery from covid , and in get people back out and about . it be particularly useful for young passenger ; it help to build their confidence and get they back on the road to recovery . in the run - up to the last election , the continuation of the £ 2 bus fare cap for the duration of this Parliament be a conservative manifesto commitment . what be labour ' s response to that ? its first act on come into power be to put the price up by 50 % , from £ 2 to £ 3 . to accompany that , there be a perverse claim that that be actually a price cut . one do not need to be an economist at the Bank of England , or even from the account department , to work that one out . experience of customer complaint would be enough to enable a person to see that a price rise from £ 2 to £ 3 be exactly that : a rise , not a cut . I ' ll tell you what kind of cut be unacceptable — order . in my constituency — order . please be seat . I should have to say " order " only once . you just say the word " you " , so let ' s restart that intervention , which should be short . my apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the only unacceptable cut be those make to bus by the Conservative Government ? in my constituency , 53 % of bus be cut . that do not take away from the overarching point that Labour have increase bus fare by 50 % and describe it as a price cut , which be disingenuous in the extreme . we need to understand the impact of labour ' s price rise on ridership , and in particular on social accessibility . that understanding will inform behaviour , and should inform good policy for the future , but the Government have their head in the sand . amendment 23 , also in my name , would require the Secretary of State to conduct an assessment of the impact of end the £ 2 bus fare cap on passenger ' ability to access socially necessary local service . that proposal be initially insert in the other place , with wide support from a number of party , but again , the Government decide to remove it in Committee . they need to own the consequence of their decision . last year , Transport Ministers need to find money for an unfunded pay rise of 15 % for ASLEF train driver . where do they get the money ? their first choice be to go after bus passenger , and their second be to go after pensioner . the shadow Minister talk a lot about price , but he be defend a system in which my constituent must get three bus or more to get to their destination , and pay individual fare on those bus . under the integrated system propose in the Bill , we could have a price cap , like the one here in London . why do he not support that principle ? I be perfectly happy with that principle . in fact , it be a conservative principle , first introduce in 2016 . we do not have to choose between one thing and another ; that be a false analysis . the pricing be a political decision by this ministerial team , who choose to increase price from £ 2 to £ 3 , and that be vote for by all Government Members ; they make that political choice . the choice between a franchise scheme , an enhanced partnership scheme or any other form of scheme have nothing to do with the primary political choice , make by Labour Members , to raise price for bus passenger to pay for unfunded union pay rise . that be simply the fact . political choice be make locally and nationally . Labour member talk about the past 14 year , but we conservative win control of Lancashire county council in 2017 , and increase the bus budget by 50 % . we put on bus route that the Labour party in Lancashire have make the political decision to cut , just as it choose to put up the price cap from £ 2 to £ 3 . these be political choice . my hon . friend be entirely right . I refer the House to Norfolk county council — another conservative council , and the one in which my constituency be base — which have an enhance partnership with bus company . that partnership have be more effective in drive bus ridership than the franchised process have be in Manchester — at least as enact by the Mayor of Manchester , Andy Burnham . I will now deal with franchise more fully . this bizarre draft legislation appear to have take a good idea in principle and make it bad in practice . the hon . member for Burton and Uttoxeter ( Jacob Collier ) be quite right that the Conservative Government recognise in 2016 the potential for region - base transport integration . in principle , mayoral combine authority have the scale , resource and financial sophistication to take on the responsibility of create a franchised scheme , and would thereby have more control over the design of public transport in their area . that be a conservative innovation , and I support it . under the 2017 legislation , other local transport authority also have the ability to apply for franchise status , if I may loosely call it that . however , there be concern that small local authority would not have as many resource — be they financial or top - tier management resource — to deal with and design such operation , so a critical safeguard be insert in that legislation require such authority , should they wish to go down the franchise route , to obtain the approval of the Secretary of State for their plan . it be a sense - check — a need safeguard — because franchising expose local transport authority to huge commercial risk . they be not just let contract and , as with an enhanced partnership , add a bit extra on , after negotiation with commercial operator ; they also become responsible for the design of the full bus map and timetable , and have the result commercial liability of provide all the bus and driver . authority can either pay a bus company to operate for a fee , and so take no commercial risk — the company just turn up and do what it be tell — or expose themselves far by create a municipal bus company and do everything themselves . if that go wrong , it can bankrupt a local authority . on the point about financial risk for local authority , do my hon . friend agree there be absolutely nothing in the Bill that local authority such as mine , the Isle of Wight council , would possibly want to touch when it come to franchise for bus across my constituency ? the risk for small unitary authority be just far too great . if there be any opportunity at all in this Bill — I be not sure that there be — it will apply only to large city council and metropolitan area . my hon . friend be quite right . there be some good in the amendment . I come to amendment 58 , which would reinsert the Secretary of State ' s safeguard . that would not prohibit small unitarie from apply or develop a franchise model ; it be about the Secretary of State have the ability to sense - check the commercial ability of an organisation to take the very significant commercial risk that franchising bring with it . there be another massive lacuna in the current drafting of the Bill . have expand franchising to any local authority , no matter how small and whether district , county or unitary , the Secretary of State would withdraw from any power to intervene if thing go wrong . we recognise that there be increase commercial risk and that we will ask potentially small local authority to undertake wholly novel activity of which they have no experience at all , but the Secretary of State be say , " we wash our hand of this . we do not want to have any power to intervene , even when there be a prolong failure of service to the public . " the hon . Gentleman suggest that the conservative position be to support combined authority be able to take on franchising , yet the Conservative Tees Valley Mayor have flat out reject franchising power . I be proud that this government be bring forward this Bill to make it easy for combined authority and other authority to bring in franchising . in Committee , I raise the example of my constituent Norma Templeman , who have have to fight tooth and nail against the mayor and the bus company to get bus into her village of North Skelton . how can that be right ? I think the hon . Member be in favour of devolution . not all mayoral combine authority be the same ; if we have a mayoral combine authority , we want to have the right system for the area that the mayor represent . if the mayor in Teesside think that it be not the right thing for he , I back his decision . let I move on to new clause 31 , which would give the Secretary of State the power to step in where there have be " a persistent failure to deliver a service specify by contract . " it seem genuinely extraordinary that the Government be say no to that add safeguard . no cost be associate with it ; the new clause just say that where there be prolonged failure on the ground to deliver the service for whatever reason , the Secretary of State would have the power to step in and take on the management . why would the Government say that they do not need that backstop power ? they vote it down in Committee , and I do not see they accept it today either . all the amendment from the loyal opposition have a common theme : they put passenger first . this Bill be not really about passenger ; it be for a big state , more union and more union involvement , and it be primarily against private business involvement . I understand that that be the ideology of Labour Members , but the problem be that their ideology be demonstrably wrong in this instance , and we see that in the Bill . without amendment , it will damage our bus service and almost certainly damage our local transport authority , particularly the small one , if they be misguide enough to follow the encouragement of the Government and go down this route . above all , I be sorry to say that the Bill will damage the chance of our passenger . rise — order . will member please be seat ? before I go to speech from Back Benchers , I want to be clear about where we be and what we be debate , because there seem to be some confusion among colleague . we be debate the remain stage of the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill , and we be on Report . speech should relate to the amendment list on the amendment paper , not the Bill as a whole , so please check the amendment paper ; I say that for Back Benchers who hope to contribute . I know that the next Member know exactly what they be do . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . you be absolutely right , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will not repeat what I say on Second Reading , except to say it be no surprise that our first stand - alone inquiry in the Transport Committee be on bus in England outside of London . that issue affect Members in England from across the House and from all sort of constituency . I speak in support of two amendment that stand in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) , myself and other : amendment 66 and new clause 46 . since Second Reading of the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill , the Transport Committee have publish its " bus connect community " report , which focus on potential solution to the long - term decline in bus ridership in England outside London . if the Government seek the reversal of bus decline in England , I hope the Minister will support our two amendment . they add to the Bill , because they specifically seek to improve bus service in a way that rely on future guidance may not . they provide the context in which local transport authority can determine their specific bus provision . merely devolve great control to local authority without any kind of overarch value - base vision will not help in area that have no interest whatsoever in enhance and extend their service , and could risk simply entrench inequality and decline . new clause 46 seek to ensure that local transport authority have a duty to consider funding for service enhancement . it be about " whether , when and how to use appropriate public funding to improve exist local bus service . " the local transport authority must have regard to six principle . these be the potential for increase ridership ; the overall sustainability of the network ; the service improvement , particularly the frequency of exist service ; extend operating hour ; improve the reliability of service or their integration with other mode of transport ; and extend the route of local service . we know that progressive local authority be commit to enhance and expand the public transport in their area , and they do that ; we have great example under Labour mayor in Greater Manchester , South Yorkshire and the west midland . have more people on more bus address the policy objective that they and we in Labour seek to achieve , such as address congestion , air pollution , carbon emission , social and economic isolation , and growth . however , I fear that there be — and that there could be more — local authority that care little for those important objective , which be central to this Government ' s value . new clause 46 would therefore bake in a duty on local transport authority to consider use appropriate fund to improve bus service where it would " grow ridership or improve the sustainability of the overall network " . it set out specific factor to be take into account when make such decision . it would also enable bus user group and other to measure the intention of their local transport authority against those basic objective . new clause 46 come from the Transport Committee ' s recommendation 117 , which say that the Department should " require local transport authority to consider use grant or fare box funding to enhance exist local bus service . " the need to improve local bus service while grow ridership be a focal point of the evidence receive by our Committee . on that point , do the hon . Lady accept that increase the fare cap from £ 2 to £ 3 be likely to reduce ridership , whatever be contain in the new clause ? I speak in the context of devolution within an overarching set of value . I will not go into the specific of what level a bus fare should be , but the overall ridership and the sustainability of the bus system be a key objective . I know the Minister will say that with devolution , how that happen be up to the local transport authority . return to the evidence we hear in Committee , as everybody here know , bus remain the most used form of public transport , yet the number of bus journey in England outside London have drop from 4 . 6 billion in 2009 to 3 . 6 billion in 2024 . alongside the decline number of journey , the need to improve service and increase ridership speak to the evidence receive by the Committee about the impact on social isolation of a lack of access to bus . transport for the North tell the Committee that in 2024 some 11 . 4 million people across England face transport - relate social exclusion , and there be evidence that the problem be bad in town than in city . the Minister tell we that the Government intend the Bill to deliver service that be more affordable and reliable , fast and well integrate . however , when press on whether people in England would see more bus to more place by the end of this Parliament , he say that that be certainly their intention and they be do everything possible to make it happen . my contention be that without that be bake into the body of the Bill , there be a risk that in many place there could be a continued decline in bus service over time . amendment 66 to clause 14 relate to socially necessary service . it seek to insert in line 5 of page 10 after the word " service " : " along with a description of the criterion or methodology use to determine which service be consider socially necessary " . it would be for the local transport authority to define that , but in a publicly visible way . the amendment ask that local authority be require to produce a transparent methodology for how they determine these socially necessary service . the North West Surrey Bus Users Group make the argument to the Committee that a clear and consistently apply definition be essential for hold local authority accountable for maintain basic service level on loss - make route . it warn that in the absence of sufficient guidance to date , some authority have , to a great or less extent , abdicate their responsibility . as a result of such evidence , the Committee ' s report recommend that the Department should mandate local transport authority to publish their own transparent methodology for how they determine which bus service qualify as socially necessary to ensure public accountability — hence the reason for this amendment . North East Surrey College of Technology in my constituency be not accessible by bus , leave student have to travel even far for their education because local bus service be simply not serve young people . do the hon . Member agree that the Bill must expand the definition of socially necessary local service to explicitly include school and college ? I thank the hon . member for her intervention , which go to the heart of what I be say : it be not for this Bill and this government to define whether or not college , school and so forth should be include — one would hope they would be — but it be for the local authority to define their socially necessary service accord to the need in their area . they should publish it , and a requirement to do so should be in the Bill . I be pretty sure that the Minister will say , " Don ' t worry , Chair of the Select Committee , it ' ll be in the guidance . " my concern be that guidance be to some extent discretionary and can be change over time . I , Alex Mayer and other would like to see the need to have a definition and methodology for socially necessary service state in the Bill . order . I talk so highly of the Select Committee Chair and say that she do everything right , but I think she mention a colleague by their name , not by their constituency . can we try and stick to the etiquette ? I have only be here 10 and a bit year ; I will get use to it . I be refer to my hon . friend the Member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard . I apologise to the House and to you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Bill as currently draft suggest that local transport authority merely define their socially necessary service . that could mean service as they be now ; it do not take into account change in need . new housing development might mean that a loss - make route become commercially viable . the closure of a major employer might mean that nearby housing lose a viable bus service . the Bill allow for change , but it should require local authority to have a publicly available methodology , on which user group , community and resident can hold their local transport authority to account . in addition to the point about socially necessary route , company such as Stagecoach cut the frequency of essential bus — such as the no . 2 from Exeter through to Dawlish in my constituency and on down towards Paignton . that drive people away from the bus ; when the frequency go down from every 20 minute to every 30 minute , it make the service unusable and take away the social value of the route . the hon . member be entirely correct . our amendment would support local transport authority to grow their local bus network actively in response to demographic and economic change , not just to manage the decline . without the amendment , particularly amendment 66 , the only requirement be for authority to list their current service . while acknowledge the Government ' s rightful drive on devolution , our Committee would not want any local transport authority to walk away from the Bill ' s important objective to promote growth , particularly in town across England ; to promote reliability and integration ; and to address social isolation , inequality , traffic congestion and pollution . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister and commend he for his constructive engagement throughout the passage of this Bill on the Floor of the House , in Committee and via the usual channel . let I make it clear from the outset that my party support the basic tenet of this Bill . the Tories ' ideologically drive decision to deregulate the bus network in the ' 80 and allow private operator to cream off the profitable route pay scant regard for many unprofitable , mainly rural , route serve small community , which unless subsidise by an increasingly hard - press local government be simply abandon . since 1985 , as a direct consequence of their meddling , the number of bus journey take in this country have fall by over 2 billion — a decline of almost 40 % — and more than 8 , 000 service have be cut or withdraw entirely . in county such as Shropshire and Devon , and across the country from Cornwall to Caithness , entire village lose daily service , and some area be reduce to one bus per week or none . the Bill represent a bold attempt to reverse that decline . if implement properly , which will require more funding than currently on offer , it could be transformational , return control over local bus network to local community . it would remove bureaucratic barrier to franchising , enable local authority to design route , timetable , fare and brand that meet the need of community , while allow profitable route to cross - subsidise the unprofitable one , rather than line the pocket of big business , open up the possibility of a more reliable , integrated and affordable network , which be so crucial for rural and deprived area that be currently face steep service decline . liberal Democrats want to ensure that this legislation fulfil its potential by empower local community , protect vital route and drive the shift to greener , fair transport . we know how important bus be to people ' s daily life . if this Bill be to succeed , it must put passenger first . that be why my hon . friend and I have table so many amendment . I acknowledge that many of they will not be select for a vote , but even at this late hour , I ask the Minister , please , to cast his eye over they to see which one he might still accept . it be worth highlight that no few than 42 amendment be accept on Report in the Lords , 30 of they from the Government and a further six from Lord Blunkett which the Government choose to support , after some intensive behind - the - scene lobby by my Lib - Dem colleague . I thank they for amendment that we re - table in this place to address bus fare affordability , disabled passenger access , decarbonisation of the bus fleet and the protection of socially necessary route . the e5 bus service for Langley Vale in my constituency have a woefully inadequate timetable and a route that do not stop at the local hospital . local bus route be simply not service my resident . do my hon . friend agree that the Bill must tackle poor service and restore the £ 2 fare cap , reverse the devastating effect of route cut administer under the Conservatives ? those be exactly the issue that the Bill should and could address if the Minister take the bold step we be ask of he today . in its passage through the other place , the Bill be clearly strengthen through constructive engagement across the political divide . the Government have be willing to accept sensible proposal from their lordship , so surely there can be no good reason why equally sensible amendment table here in the Commons could not be adopt . one such sensible proposal concern float bus stop . badly design float bus stop be a menace to the disabled , old and infirm , and in particular to the visually impaired , which be why my party table new clause 17 , require the Secretary of State not only to conduct a review , but to retrofit all exist float bus stop where necessary . we support amendment 18 to 21 , table by the hon . member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) , and welcome the Minister ' s concession on the issue . I will address the three amendment that we continue to press with most conviction before turn to new clause 2 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) . our amendment 10 address the scourge of headphone dodger , which be not a trivial matter . many passenger feel unsafe or uncomfortable when other play loud content on their device without headphone , oblivious of those around they . that be not simply an irritation ; it cause genuine distress to many try to travel in relative peace and quiet . More than 75 % of those who use public transport state that it disturb they , accord to a recent Savanta poll . More than 80 % of people in a separate YouGov poll agree that it be unacceptable . do the hon . Gentleman agree that it be odd that the provision apply to people who travel on train but not on bus ? do he understand why the Government make that distinction ? I agree entirely . we need a simple rule across all public transport . I also think it be odd that the hon . Gentleman make that point after his colleague jeered I when I first raise the issue at Prime Minister ' s question a few month ago — but I thank he for his support now . our amendment 10 would allow local transport authority to introduce byelaw to prohibit such disruptive antisocial noise . it would be a simple , practical measure that would make bus travel well for everyone . some have argue that such measure be illiberal , but liberalism — unlike libertarianism — be as concerned with responsibility as with right . my right to play loud content on my phone do not preclude my responsibility not to cause someone else unnecessary disturbance by fail to plug in my headphone — after all , that be why they be invent . when I first raise this issue at pmq , as I mention , the Conservatives and Reform — who be not here , of course — jeer at the suggestion . I can not say whether the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) or other member of the shadow Transport Front - Bench team join in that chorus . although the Prime Minister , in his extremely constructive answer , agree that it be a serious issue , his labour colleague in Committee vote down the amendment , which the Tories also refuse to support , consistent with their previous hostility . in a bizarre volte face , the Conservatives have now table an amendment that mirror our own , and the shadow Transport Secretary , the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay , have take to the airwave in recent week to demand action on headphone dodger , have miraculously see the light — or at least hear the noise . whether that be because of headphone dodger or conservative headquarters focus group , I will leave other to judge . People say that imitation be the sincere form of flattery and , despite the Conservatives ' previous mocking and blocking , I be delighted to welcome our conservative friend to the cause . I ask the Minister to listen again — which would be a damned sight easy to do be amendment 10 accept and the headphone dodger be consign to history . without doubt , the Minister will say as he do in Committee , that the Bill already give local transport authority the ability to address antisocial behaviour . however , it do not explicitly reference the scourge of auditory disturbance , which be so serious a problem as surely to merit the individual attention that our amendment 10 would provide , empower local transport authority to create a bus environment that be safe , civil and comfortable for everyone . if the Government be serious about improve the passenger experience , they , like the late - arrive conservative , must surely come around to support this sensible liberal democratic policy , which accord to Savanta be support by a vast majority of the public ; only 13 % be opposed . new clause 1 would reinstate the £ 2 bus cap . the Government ' s recent decision to hike the cap to £ 3 represent a 50 % increase that will drive people off bus and hit the most vulnerable in our society . I absolutely support the reduction of the price cap to £ 2 . however , in my constituency , where the Conservatives cut bus route by more than 50 % over the past decade , people often have to get several bus , so for a couple of constituent I have , go to the Jobcentre cost they £ 12 , even though a price cap be in place . do we not need a simple structure and proper investment so that bus do not cost so much ? those be indeed the issue that we need to address and that be not address at the moment — my hon . friend be absolutely right . the poor , who use bus the most , be already struggle with the cost of living crisis . no amount of spin can hide the fact that the Government ' s decision represent a huge fare increase , despite the Prime Minister take to social medium last month to proclaim that he be put work people first , and that this fare rise would " cut cost " for work family . no , it will not . in Torbay , which be sadly one of the most deprive constituency in the south - west of England , bus travel be the primary form of public transport . the £ 2 price cap be value by young people and by those of work age in navigate Torbay . do my hon . friend agree that its reinstatement would help oil the wheel of our community , such as Torbay ? that be hugely important . if we want to get people back on the bus and help the most deprived in our society , we need to reinstate the £ 2 bus cap . fare have rise to the point where many household simply can not afford to use the bus regularly . a £ 2 fare cap would make a tangible difference to low - income family , student and modest earner , while also help to reduce congestion and cut emission by get more people out of their car . sadly , new clause 1 have not be schedule for a vote , so we will support the Conservatives ' more modest proposal , amendment 23 , require the Secretary of State to conduct an impact assessment of the ending of the £ 2 bus cap . another clause that will not be press to a vote be our new clause 48 , which would have provide free travel for uniformed police officer in order to provide great reassurance to the travel public . antisocial behaviour — and not just headphone dodge — be on the increase across the bus network , and the sight of more police officer on bus would only help to reduce that menace . currently , there be a patchwork of different scheme cover some , but not all , bus operator , and require officer to produce a variety documentation to access free travel , which be not infrequently deny . our new clause would have provide a simple baseline require no bureaucracy , allow every officer in uniform to travel freely on any bus . I again ask the Minister to consider accept that costless improvement to the safety of the bus network . I now turn to a hugely consequential cross - party amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) , whose work on the Bill have be thoughtful and persistent . his new clause 2 would require the Secretary of State to remove time restriction on the use of disabled concessionary travel pass . it be support not just by Liberal Democrats but by member across the House , include on the Government Benches . disabled passenger , force to travel at restrict time under current rule , face unnecessary barrier to job , appointment and social inclusion . remove time restriction would allow they to use the bus network when they need it . it be right that the House should support this new clause , and I warmly congratulate my hon . friend on bring it forward . rigid time slot reflect outdate thinking . disabled people deserve travel choice that reflect real - life need . if , as they claim during their ill - fate attempt to reduce personal independence payment before the recess , the Government really want to help more disabled people back into work , remove such restriction would be a wonderful place to start . I be delighted that Mr Speaker have select new clause 2 for a vote , and I ask Members across the House to bear witness to the cross - party support that it have already receive by vote together in support of it . in conclusion , my party welcome the Bill , which will make a real difference to our bus network , but I call on the Government and the Minister to not allow petty party rivalry and tribalism to stand in the way of make this legislation even more effective by vote against the sensible amendment and new clause that we have propose . I declare an interest as a member of the RMT and Unite parliamentary group , and I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I thank the RMT for its support in scrutinise the Bill . with thousand of member work in the bus sector across England , it be uniquely place to contribute its expertise . the context be stark . in 2024 there be 76 million few bus journey in the north - east compare with 2010 — a fall of more than a third . that decline be not just a statistic ; it represent miss shift , social isolation and community cut off from opportunity . I place on record that I support the Bill , but I will speak to the four amendment that stand in my name — new clause 25 , 26 , 27 and 35 — and voice my support for new clause 45 . new clause 27 would create a national bus forum with representative from the Government , local transport authority , operator and trade union . deregulation have leave the sector fragment , make it hard to tackle challenge , such as recruitment , retention , skill and safety , in a coherent way . the Transport Committee ' s 2018 inquiry into the health of the bus market , undertake when I be a member of the Committee , recommend that the Government ' s strategy be " underpin by a national forum " to share information on service improvement , workforce issue and safety . the National Audit Office echo that , urge the Department for Transport to use the bus centre of excellence to collate and share good practice . a national forum would provide that structure and oversight . however , national oversight alone be not enough . new clause 25 would require all local transport authority introduce franchising to establish a joint forum with union and operator . the Government say that they expect lta to engage with union , although expectation be not a guarantee . however , leave this as an " expectation " will not guarantee meaningful engagement everywhere . as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , there be inconsistency , include in the Tees Valley . some lta be experience in work constructively with union , but other be not . a statutory requirement would ensure consistent and meaningful engagement everywhere . new clause 26 and 35 address enhance partnership . many local transport authority will opt for enhanced partnership instead of franchising , and that be a matter for they . at present , stakeholder forum must include passenger , business and neighbouring authority , but union be not list . I respectfully say to the Minister that if the aim of stakeholder forum be to involve those most directly affect , then surely the workforce can not be exclude . new clause 26 and 35 would remedy that by require trade union participation in every enhance partnership forum . I support new clause 45 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Heywood and Middleton North ( Mrs Blundell ) , which would establish a legal duty on council to provide a minimum level of night - time bus service to local employment centre , ensure that worker such as nurse , hospitality staff and factory employee can get home safely . this be particularly important for woman , give that more than one in four will experience some sort of sexual assault in their lifetime . night - time bus be a matter not just of convenience , but of safety . take together , new clause 25 , 27 , 26 and 35 form a coherent package — national oversight and good practice match by consistent workforce engagement at local level . alongside new clause 45 , these new clause demonstrate what this Bill should achieve : a bus system that be accountable , safe and responsive to the need of both passenger and staff . if the Government can not accept they , I urge the Minister to commit instead to address these matter through guidance or a code of practice , and to meet the trade union and stakeholder to decide how that might be achieve . the Bill represent an opportunity to reshape bus service for the well , but that opportunity will be waste if we repeat the mistake of deregulation , fragmentation , inconsistency and sideline the workforce . these new clause be about make sure that this time we get it right . I rise to support new clause 47 , which stand in my name and that of the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) . I will also make a pass reference to his excellent new clause 2 , which I wholeheartedly support and which — as we have hear — be design to remove the time restriction on when disabled person ' concessionary bus pass can be use . new clause 47 be very simple and , I would like to think , very logical . it simply require that the Secretary of State should , " within 12 month of this Act receive Royal Assent , bring forward proposal to extend the English National Concessionary Travel Scheme to include Companion Passes for disabled person who require the assistance of a designate companion in order to use the bus network " . I be first alert to this problem by some very effective lobbying do in Parliament a few month ago , which other right hon . and hon . member may well remember . I be lobby by a number of my constituent , who say to I that there be not much point in have a concessionary pass to use bus free of charge if they be unable to do so except when help by a companion . it rather make a mockery of the concession . I follow this up with a visit to the New Forest branch of Mencap , and the implication of the scheme be impressed on I as be so obvious as to require little support argument . what be the point of give somebody something for free if they can not use it without the assistance of someone else , unless a designate companion be able to travel with they for free on the same bus pass ? a number of county council , for example , allow this , but it be a discretionary power . that seem rather strange , because a number of aspect of the scheme be statutory requirement . I believe this should be one of they , if it be not to make a nonsense — as I have already explain — of the statutory requirement that disabled person should have a free bus pass . I have table a couple of write question on this topic . one in particular — number 48343 , table on 27 April — ask the Government whether their review of the English national concessionary travel scheme have make a recommendation on the question of companion pass for the disabled . the answer read , in part : " the Department for Transport conduct a review of the ENCTS and be currently consider next step . the review do not consider add companion pass to the statutory criterion for the scheme . " the answer then add a standard formulation that I have receive in response to other question on this topic : " currently , local authority in England have the power to go beyond their statutory obligation under the enct and offer additional discretionary concession , such as extend the travel time criterion for the enct . " I simply put it to the House that if a pass - issue authority have a statutory duty to provide disabled people with a free bus pass , there ought to be a statutory duty to require a designate companion to be include on that same pass for those who can not use it without a companion . that be probably not something that will be decide today , but I hope the impeccable logic of my argument will appeal to the Minister and that within 12 month he will take the action request . it be an absolute pleasure to follow the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) . I rise to speak to the amendment stand in my name and to new clause 23 and 24 . I begin by commend the Minister for his engagement with I on this Bill . we have have some robust and good dialogue and conversation on float bus stop , and I be sure he would agree with I on that . nobody in this place should be surprised to hear I speak about float bus stop . as we know , for more than a decade , float bus stop have create a huge challenge for pedestrian . Active Travel England have rightly say : " bus stop should be easily accessible … the route to the bus stop should be safe , direct , convenient and accessible for people of all ability . " be there anybody in this House who do not agree with that ? my hon . friend know that one of the busy float bus stop in my constituency be right outside St Thomas ' hospital , which I will confess I have have a few bump on . she and I do oppose its introduction . do she agree that all float bus stop should be review , so that when patient be go to important site such as hospital , they be not be knock from their bike or buggy ? my hon . friend will not be surprised to hear that I agree 100 % with her assessment . she be right ; all those year ago — I do not want to say how long , because we will be show our age — we oppose that float bus stop outside St Thomas ' hospital , because we know the challenge it would present for pedestrian . pedestrian continue to be injure at float bus stop , with cyclist too often fail to give way . even though some float bus stop have small zebra crossing , it be rare to see cyclist stop . we know that blind and partially sight people be have to walk into cycle lane and into the way of cyclist , and they can not see . that will be terrifying and a dangerous experience for they . the risk of injury can undermine their ability to travel independently and safely , and not be able to travel independently be life - limiting . it affect everything from , as my hon . friend have just say , access vital health service , to hold down a job , or just be able to go out and socialise with friend . anecdotally , we know that people be experience injury and collision at float bus stop . for that reason , I strongly believe that we need to have hard datum if we be to address the problem properly . that be why my amendment 21 would ensure that datum be gather on float bus stop and share bus boarder . as we know , they vary in their design and some pose more danger than other . I thank my hon . friend for her campaigning on this issue . she know that , as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for wheelchair user , I share similar concern for they . we often see that bus ramp be design to fit in with the bus boarder , but it be then very difficult for the wheelchair user to pivot from the exit of the bus ramp back on to the pavement . will she join I in continue to impress upon the Government that we have get to get the design right in order to assist all disabled people , and that disabled people — whether blind or partially sight , or wheelchair user — must continue to be engage in this dialogue ? absolutely . I thank my hon . friend for make that point so well . I be fairly certain that the Minister will have hear he loud and clear and will agree . it be so important that we get the design right . if we be seek to do what be good , we need to know what need to be change , and we need to collect datum on the design and location of all float bus stop so that we can compare it with the number of collision and injury . I very much welcome the fact that Active Travel England will undertake further research , include a national audit and safety review of all float bus stop , to gain an accurate picture of where such bus stop be in use , what type they be , and so on . that could really help to shape future guidance . I hope that the Minister will say a little more about when the research will commence , because I be sure that many people will welcome it . although I appreciate that there will be an equality impact assessment of the Bill as a whole , and that impact assessment have already be produce , it be clear to I that there need to be a particular focus on the concern of blind and partially sight people when it come to share - use bus boarder and float bus stop , so my new clause 23 would require an equality impact assessment on their provision . if we be to have the truly accessible transport system that we be all strive for , we need to pay attention to the impact of our transport decision on disabled people . float bus stop be introduce in London in 2013 , and they have cause havoc . my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) mention the one just over the bridge outside St Thomas ' hospital , but even in my own Battersea constituency they just appear , and they really do create a challenge for many — and not just for disabled people or blind and partially sight people , but for the elderly and for family with young child and buggy . I would go so far as to say that in many respect the safety interest of some group of road user have sometimes be treat more favourably , to the detriment of other . do my hon . friend agree that by get this right and ensure that we have bus stop that be accessible for everybody , include partially sight people and disabled people , we will encourage more people to use public transport , because they will feel that it be safe and accessible for they ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we be encourage people to do more active travel and to use public transport , so we need to ensure that the transport network be fully accessible and inclusive . the Minister have confirm that an equality impact assessment will be publish upon Royal Assent , and I press he again to clarify that for I . right now , we have a system that blind and partially sight people say put they at risk . it be not just I , with my own live experience , say that ; many blind and partially sight people say it , and the many organisation that support they have say the same . that tell I that we perhaps need to rethink float bus stop . indeed , if I have my way — I do not , unfortunately — I would ban they all , because they have create a challenge . none the less , we be where we be , and I be really pleased that the Government want to work to improve the situation . I welcome the fact that clause 31 seek to address some of the challenge . my new clause 24 would place a duty on the Government to carry out an independent assessment . I welcome the Government ' s commitment on produce guidance for local service around the country in order to promote active travel , but also to ensure that disabled people can travel independently , safely and in reasonable comfort . in my view , that must be mandatory ; it can not be optional . I know the Minister have hear my concern , and he have confirm that that will be the case . I also welcome the partial pause on some type of float bus stop . as member have say , it be so important that we address some of the safety concern before move to a full - scale roll - out of float bus stop . I thank organisation such as the Guide Dogs for the Blind Association , the National Federation of the Blind , the Royal National Institute of Blind People and Transport for all , and the many blind , partially sight and disabled people , for campaign on this issue relentlessly to ensure that we really have a public realm that be fully accessible and fully inclusive , so that we can all benefit . I will not push my new clause and amendment to a vote . I fully support the Government in their endeavour , and I support this Bill . North Shropshire be a very rural constituency , and it be nestle in against the Welsh border , which be wiggly — I think that be the good way to describe it . that mean that my constituent ' experience of use bus can be problematic , and I have table some new clause that I hope the Minister will reflect on . Shropshire be one of the worst - serve county for bus , have lose 66 % of its bus mile since 2015 . it have lose more bus mile , by percentage , than any other county in England . the average loss of bus mile be about 20 . 9 % , so it have be a severe experience for my constituent . town such as Market Drayton have almost become isolated , because their bus service be so poor . I be sure the House have hear I say before that there be only one bus run in Shropshire on Sundays . I be lucky enough to be able to report that it run from a town in my constituency , but it be hardly an acceptable situation for my constituent . new clause 37 be sponsor by 30 colleague from across the House , reveal that my constituent ' experience be share by people in many part of rural Britain . it try to address the problem of poor bus service in market town by require the Secretary of State to ensure that a service must be available seven day a week , and that she consult the relevant body to ensure that constituent use the bus service can access essential service . my Bus Services Bill , which aim to get people to hospital and other health service when they need to do so , have that requirement , but it could equally be apply to school , college and other important destination for people who find themselves isolate . in Bournemouth East , I be campaign to get a well bus route to Bournemouth airport , to improve the no . 33 and to reinstate a service in Throop , where the community feel very disconnected . do the hon . Lady agree that one benefit of this Bill be that it empower local authority to run their own bus company so that they can reinstate those route ? I be broadly supportive of the Bill , because I think it will do that . my point be that the power to franchise bus service be all very well , but the funding need to follow the power . otherwise , constituency such as mine will not see the improvement for which they be desperate . colleague have talk about the bus fare cap . I be supportive of measure to keep it at £ 2 , but I must point out that in constituency such as mine , which have little in the way of bus service , a cap have not make a huge difference . some of the operator have not opt into that cap , so it have have limit impact for my constituent , important as it be . the £ 1 billion fund announce by the Department for Transport last November promise to give rural and coastal area a real sea change in their bus service , but in Shropshire — as I mention , it have have the bad drop - off in its service in the whole country — only £ 2 . 5 million be allocate . that be the critical point and why I be fully supportive of the Bill ' s measure that will allow local authority to decide where bus service be essential . the funding need to follow they , regardless of whether area be in a combine authority or have a mayor , and it should follow need , not just structure . I urge the Minister to take that on board . although we be not vote on new clause 37 , across the House , include on the Government Benches , 30 member have sponsor it . many similar amendment have be table that likewise seek to improve bus service for people live in rural area , and ensure they be adequate to access essential service . I urge the Minister to consider the intention of my new clause , and those of similar amendment table by colleague , and commit to some kind of improvement for rural area when he make his closing remark . I mention that North Shropshire be press up against the border with Wales and that the border with Wales be very wiggly . that give my constituent a specific challenge with their bus pass . if they want to catch a bus between two destination in England but it stop in Wales or they need to change in Wales , their bus pass be not valid . I think that be a bit crazy . for example , if they want to go from Oswestry to Chester and they need to change at Wrexham , their bus pass will not be valid . that be the one service that run on a Sunday . we need to ensure that people can use their bus pass when they be cross the border . that be a very low - cost thing , which ought to be very easy for a Government to sort out . my new clause 39 would require the Secretary of State to liaise with the Welsh Government and come up with a workable solution for what be probably an unintended consequence of devolution between England and Wales . I hope the Minister will take that on board and consider a workable solution for people use their bus pass across the border . I also table new clause 40 , which replicate that requirement for Scotland . I appreciate that that do not impact my constituent in North Shropshire , but I table it in the name of be inclusive . I be proud to have be one of the first signatory to new clause 2 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) . I will not take any of the credit for the new clause because he have do all the hard work , but I will urge the Minister to consider accept new clause 2 because it be so important . disability do not stop at 9 . 30 . I speak in support of the Bill and in favour of new clause 22 in my name . we can now say in complete confidence that the privatisation and deregulation of our bus service have be a catastrophic failure for rural town and village such as those across North East Hertfordshire . decade of dogmatic adherence to flawed ideology have create vast public transport desert where resident have no meaningful alternative to drive a car . the consequent social cost of this failure have be profound : more and more traffic that stifle our community and choke our river and air with life - limit pollution ; young people cut off from education and employment , force to leave their home to get on in life ; and our elderly trap in loneliness and isolation , which should be a source of shame for our entire nation . the privatisation disaster mean for those unable to drive or afford a car , a connected life in rural England be practically impossible . I welcome many of the clause in the Bill that together offer a chance to reverse the hollowing out of our village which threaten to end century of cultural and economic vibrancy . we need a bus network that comprehensively meet the need of every community , especially for rural area that lose their train station in the Beeching cut , include Buntingford , Westmill , Braughing , and Standon in my constituency . that be why I have table new clause 22 , which would empower Ministers to conduct a review into the delivery of guarantee minimum bus service standard for every community with more than 300 resident across England . during the progress of the Bill , I run a survey on the experience of my constituent of their local bus service . hundred of resident respond and a massive , if unsurprising , 83 % of they feel that the bus service available do not offer a viable alternative to own and drive a car . as I be sure you can imagine , Madam Deputy Speaker , whether via the survey or in community meeting , my constituent have be none too shy in share their thought about the quality , reliability and general usefulness of local bus service . consequently , it be completely clear to I that voter in North East Hertfordshire be utterly feed up with a bus network base on profitability for shareholder rather than public need . the measure in the Bill to address that with a long - overdue strengthening of socially necessary bus service be very welcome . however , to succeed in meet the hope of community such as those that I represent , we should go far and move towards a universal basic right to public transport with enshrined service standard across the country , replace the threadbare , patchwork and inadequate network leave by deregulation . although it may be difficult to imagine , give the current state of public transport in our nation , that is , in fact , something that other country be quite happily do already . in Switzerland , the region of Zurich guarantee village of 300 people or more at least an hourly bus service run seven day a week from 6 am to midnight , link rural resident to regional facility for employment , education , training , shopping and leisure , while North Hesse in Germany have a target of bus service reach every village across the region every hour . now be the time to show that we be no less ambitious for our community and to set out on a path towards internationally lead bus service in England . to achieve that , new clause 22 would trigger a review into set minimum bus service standard for community in England , consider their vary requirement base on population size and rurality , alongside the regulatory power and funding arrangement necessary for local transport authority to implement a comprehensive network of this nature . I look forward to hear the response from the Front Bench to this new clause , which I hope they will consider in the positive light in which it be intend . I note that the Minister argue against new clause 22 in Committee , on the basis that he believe that the legislation to guarantee minimum level of service for community already exist in the Transport Act 2000 . I gently say to he that , have review that legislation with a little support from the superb staff at the Commons Library , I have not be able to identify any such power . I be more than happy to accept that I may well be wrong on that point , Madam Deputy Speaker , but suffice it to say that Transport Act 2000 or no , the community I represent in North East Hertfordshire be not yet enjoy bus service remotely comparable to those deliver to guarantee standard in Switzerland , Germany and elsewhere . of course , a comprehensive bus network with guarantee minimum service standard will require adequate public funding , and it be important to be up front about that . however , year on year , under successive government , we have spend billion of pound on wasteful , counterproductive and environmentally damaging road - building scheme . analysis suggest that redirect that funding to the bus service our constituent need for their day - to - day life would fully fund guarantee minimum service standard across the country . a comprehensive bus network base on guarantee minimum service standard would transform public transport across the country , especially for rural area . it would demonstrate the profound change the Labour Government be elect to deliver . above all , it would inject new optimism and opportunity into our community , as people would find themselves able to make entirely different life choice : young adult could choose to stay live close to friend and family , as commute from the village they grow up in would become a genuine possibility ; key worker struggle with the cost of living could avoid debt and hardship without the need to buy and maintain a second car ; and high street business would flourish , with great footfall and an expand pool of employee talent and energy . it be time for public transport that put people before profit . new clause 22 would do just that . my constituent want the performance , accessibility and quality of bus service to be improve , and that be why I support new clause 34 . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) for re - table it . when the Secretary of State speak to the Bill on Second Reading , she say that improve bus service underpin the Government ' s plan for change . if that be the case , it strike I as odd that the Government would strip out a new clause make in the other place that specifically state that that be the purpose of the Bill . I also support new clause 29 , which call for a review of the provision of bus service to village in England . there be many village in my constituency with poor or non - existent bus route , with particular problem in Spaxton , Enmore , Combwich , Fiddington and Stockland Bristol . these village find themselves just off the main route , with the resident leave all but stranded , unable even to get to and from Bridgwater unless they have a car . even in the village that do have service , far too often the bus service stop in the early evening . for example , the last no . 16 bus to Langport , which serve Westonzoyland , Middlezoy and Othery , leave Bridgwater at 5 . 15 pm . that mean not only that the service fail to cater for those who want to travel for leisure , but that many constituent be unable to use bus for commute because they can not get home after work . the review should also consider integration between different mode of transport , which be an important issue for those live in rural area who need to travel far afield . there have be no usable bus stop at Bridgwater railway station for several year because of road layout problem . it be a relatively small fix , but despite run Somerset council for the last three year , the Lib Dem administration seem unable to fix the problem . we must ensure that the Bill oblige local authority to act in circumstance such as these , and I hope the review will assist in that . another problem my constituent would wish the review to consider be seasonal timetable . I be fortunate to represent a beautiful part of Somerset that attract large number of visitor to both the coast and the Quantock hill . during the summer , demand for bus be understandably high . what the bus operator seem to forget , however , be that the local resident population rely on bus service continue all year round . seasonal bus help those in the north of my constituency commute to work or college in Weston - super - Mare . the reduced frequency of the no . 20 bus service and the lack of a Sunday service in the winter month mean that few people can rely on it . I hope that the Government accept the need for this review and that its result well inform policy when the new franchising be roll out . I support amendment 23 , which call for an assessment of the ending of the £ 2 bus cap . the £ 2 cap be a great achievement of the last Conservative Government , and I be disappoint when the Labour Government decide to scrap it . they increase the amount that all our constituent have to pay by 50 % and then proclaim it a triumph . it sound like something from soviet propaganda . we be suppose to welcome this glorious new £ 3 bus fare as some sort of victory of the proletariat over the force of capitalism , conveniently forget what precede it . I want to see the £ 2 cap reinstate , and I hope that the assessment will be the first step toward that . I want to see bus service improve for my constituent . I believe that amendment 23 and new clause 29 and 34 would improve the Bill , and I urge the Minister to accept they . I refer hon . member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and declare an interest as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for british bus . within my constituency and the neighbour constituency of the hon . member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) be two site of the UK ' s large bus manufacturer , Alexander Dennis , which employ around 400 people in Falkirk , with thousand more job dependent on the bus create at Falkirk . manufacturer will welcome new clause 38 and the certainty that it give by consolidate the provision of the Bill in Scotland . bus manufacturing in Britain have be in difficulty in the past year , partly due to the failure of the previous Government to deliver on their pledge of 4 , 000 British - build , zero emission bus by 2024 . in the end , they support just over half that number , with just under half be buy from abroad . the Tories fund too few bus and get far too many of they from elsewhere in the world . then there be a second policy failure , this time by the Scottish Government ' s recent scotzeb 2 programme , which see less than one fifth of its bus come from Scotland ' s only bus manufacturer and more than three time more come from China . stand up for Scotland — aye right ! both the Conservatives and the Scottish National party do not take the protection of the domestic bus manufacturing sector seriously , and their failure have jeopardise hundred of job in my constituency and potentially thousand in the supply chain across the country . all this be to say that the future of a domestic industry that we will need if we want to see a green , clean , safe and effective bus network be contingent on legislation that support the effective domestic procurement of bus and enable local authority to make decision that be right for their area and put the passenger first . the Bill do an excellent job of deliver on those priority , with a streamlined and more flexible franchising process , strong power for grant funding from local authority , and local authority able to order in bulk , as in the case of the Bee Network in Manchester . the Bee Network be bolster by 254 bus order from and build in Falkirk . I will never miss an opportunity to remind the House that the Bee Network ' s bus be reliant on the skill and craftmanship of bus manufacturing worker in Falkirk , more than they be reliant on any other place . that be thank in no small part to the instinct and political foresight of the Mayor of Manchester to work in the national interest — instinct that will be empower across the country by the provision in the Bill . if only we have the same foresight from the Scottish Government , who must now deliver on their commitment to a prospective rescue deal for Alexander Dennis worker follow the excellent engagement and flexibility of our Transport , Cabinet Office and Scotland Office colleague . it be welcome that , follow consultation , the ban on register non - zero emission bus for local service will start no early than 2030 , as move too fast on the necessary transition to zero emission vehicle would create a degree of risk for domestic manufacturer in the current market . this year , the industry report that 35 % of ZEV bus purchase in the country by local authority and operator will come from China , compare with 10 % only two year ago . that be an alarming share to have be take out of our domestic manufacture . we must address that before we throw ourselves head - first or too fast into build an exclusively clean , green and foreign fleet across the country . while I be sympathetic to the well - intentione environmentalist call in amendment 62 and 63 from the Green party to accelerate the non - zero emission bus ban , that approach would risk create a situation in which authority and operator would likely be compel to buy from abroad , far undermine the competitiveness of our domestic industry , on which my community rely . I would more than welcome Green Members ' engagement with the all - party group to discuss how the House can align british industry with the laudable intention of those amendment . the UK timeline will align with the transition in Scotland , as I mention , as be address in the Secretary of State ' s new clause 38 and amendment 46 to 48 . accelerate our ambition beyond what domestic capacity allow would create a risk that local authority and operator would be compel in the long term to buy an unsustainably high proportion of their fleet from abroad , from manufacturer who have receive decade of state subsidy elsewhere . I repeat the ask of my all - party parliamentary group for Ministers to use the work of the bus manufacturing expert panel to map out a fully fund and coherent pipeline of zero emission bus order that can be meet by our world - lead domestic manufacturer , and provide the certainty that the sector — especially worker in Falkirk this week — need before the ban come in in 2030 . as I mention , Falkirk have already see the benefit of local authority - control bus network , with Labour - control Liverpool and Manchester combined authority make clear strategic commitment to partner with UK manufacturer and order significant number of bus from Alexander Dennis . consider strategic and small - p political local leadership can often make more effective policy decision than the private sector or — I acknowledge — lazy franchiser , who all too often simply look to the cheap price rather than consider our national , industrial and economic interest . More authority operate like that , in tandem with the upcoming change to the local authority procurement framework , could see we not just protect job in Falkirk in the short term but materially enable an expansion of the industry . that be essential to deliver the socially positive outcome clearly articulate by hon . member in new clause 45 and amendment 7 and 16 , to mention just a few . we can not forget the social benefit of an industry that provide an additional 3 . 25 job per job hire in manufacturing . the benefit be see in quieter and smoother journey , but also in job create and protect , taxis pay and community strengthen . the Bill seem on the whole to be about build up the power of our local authority , but it also give we an opportunity to build up the bus manufacturing industry while we set our mind to the task of improve local transport . the Bill on the whole be well for passenger , well for local authority , and hopefully well for british worker . with the Bill we can deliver a transport system that be clean , affordable and reliable and a bus manufacturing industry that thrive for decade to come . first stop , Falkirk . with an immediate five - minute time limit , I call Tom Gordon . I will start by speak to new clause 2 , which stand in my name and be support by over 70 colleague from across the House . it call for the removal of time restriction impose on disabled bus pass . under the English national concessionary travel scheme , eligible disabled people be entitle to free local bus travel . the policy rightly recognise that , for a variety of reason , disabled people rely on public transport to access healthcare , work and education , as well as for family and community purpose . the policy also recognise that disabled people be more likely to require financial support , as they face disproportionately high cost of living . yet from 11 pm to 9 . 30 be on weekday , that entitlement become void , dependent instead on whether travel authority choose — or even can afford — to extend the benefit . Disability Action Yorkshire , a charity in my constituency , first highlight the absurdity of the restriction to I last year . since that meeting , I have be campaign to have the time restriction remove . I have meet and receive support from a number of charity that work with disabled people , include Transport for all , Whizz Kidz , Bus Users UK and the RNIB . the consensus be clear : the current restriction have huge impact on the everyday life of disabled people . the amendment would require the Secretary of State to remove the time restriction impose by the enct , allow disabled passenger to travel for free , 24 hour a day , seven day a week , regardless of their postcode . the fact be simple : disability do not disappear at peak time . why , then , be our policy base on arbitrary timeframe ? to design a scheme intend to promote accessibility , only to limit it when most people need it , undermine the very purpose of the policy . the issue come to light when my mum put I in touch with her friend Amy , who get in a taxi with her son to drop he off at school . she then have to spend 30 minute wait before she can use her disabled bus pass to get home . in South Yorkshire , a disabled bus pass holder get in touch with I about how their travel journey include one stop in a different local authority . Kurt , who be register blind , end up be throw off the bus at 9 . 25 am . liberal Democrat councillor have long campaign on this issue , include John Lawson in Kirklees , who raise the case of a Cleckheaton resident with epilepsy who suffer from the restriction too . there be around 870 , 000 disabled bus pass holder in England , make up about 10 % of all concessionary user . although the DFT point out that most local authority offer some form of free travel before 9 . 30 am , only a third provide unrestricted , 24 / 7 access . for many , that mean that commute to work , attend education or make early medical appointment be either unaffordable or impossible . the DFT have a responsibility to improve accessibility . it can not keep kick the can to local or transport authority , claim it be up to they to make discretionary change . just as the Department can enforce the restriction , so it can remove it . it be time to stop pass the buck . provision remain patchy , insecure and vulnerable to cut . my hon . friend may be aware that in East Sussex , where I be lucky enough to be an MP , the county council have already remove the restriction on timing . indeed , he have meet my former Liberal Democrat council colleague Sean Macleod to discuss that . do my hon . friend agree that that create a postcode lottery across the country , where some people be fortunate to live in place that have remove the restriction and other be not so lucky ? my hon . friend make an excellent point and I highlight the work that Liberal Democrat councillor , include he , have do over the year to ensure that such provision be make . that postcode lottery be completely unfair . economically , the argument be equally strong . we know that disabled people already face high living cost . remove the 9 . 30 be restriction would open up work and training opportunity that begin before that cut - off , and crucially , the cost of do so be modest . research by Whizz Kidz show that it would cost about 1 % of the current annual spend on concessionary travel , and we know that for each pound spend on concessionary bus pass , it be think that over £ 3 be bring back in economic benefit . end the restriction would deliver more than just transport access . it would promote independence , reduce isolation , improve health outcome and encourage great use of sustainable public transport . charity such as Whizz Kidz have show that young disabled people overwhelmingly support 24 / 7 access , with many say it would help they build confidence , friendship and skill . the amendment have support from lead disability charity such as the RNIB , as well as cross - party support in this House . now be the time for this Labour Government to show their commitment to improve access and tear down barrier to inequality by support the amendment . the Minister and I have have many interaction on this subject and I be sure he be not surprised to see I push for it again today . I urge he to consider it , whether through the Bill or far down the line in different possible measure and arrangement . it be high time that disabled people have the same freedom to travel , the same independence and the same opportunity as everyone else . that be what the amendment would deliver and I urge all member across this House to support it . disability do not start at 9 . 30 am , so disabled bus pass should not either . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on british bus . today ' s debate be so important to the people of Shrewsbury , as we have lose over two third of our bus route in the past 10 year . we be one of the large town in the UK , with over 65 , 000 resident , yet we have not see a Sunday bus for over a decade . we also have very few evening bus service , which be hold back our nighttime economy , despite be a glorious tourist destination . the new bus power for franchising will be a game changer for local council such as our in Shropshire . they will give we the opportunity to introduce new bus route if they be consider to be socially necessary , such as that all - important Sunday service or some additional stop to widen access to our current hospital bus route and the new health clinic facility come down the track . it be our belief that these social route could eventually build up their passenger number and ultimately become economically viable in their own right . to that end , I wish to speak in support of the Bill and new clause 45 , which seek to bring forward requirement on transport authority to deliver the minimum level of off - peak and nighttime bus service . that could transform access to employment for many of the resident in my constituency . we have only a handful of bus service after 6 o ' clock and only one single bus at 8 o ' clock , yet we be the county town and host to the county ' s health , governance , economic and education service , as well as be a major employer for a county of 350 , 000 resident . shift worker , NHS staff and those work in hospitality — as well as those of we who enjoy hospitality — need those bus to run beyond 8 o ' clock . the Shropshire bus service user group have consistently campaign on the need for evening and the all - important Sunday bus service . until now , no commercial company would take the risk , but within the last year , bus route add by my local authority use Government bus service improvement plan money have lead to increase passenger number and become embed in our network . to overcome the reticence of private company to widen their route at economic risk , the local authority be ready to do that , where legislation allow and where passenger datum indicate that all - important demand and socially necessary route . the new clause would support Shropshire council by underpin the need to re - establish evening and Sunday bus service , give the impetus to widen those route . to conclude , I wish to remind the Minister , as I do in every speech , that my beautiful town of Shrewsbury lose its Sunday service a decade ago under the last government , and that it be in both our hand to ensure that we reinstate it under this Labour Government . I rise to speak in support of new clause 2 , which be table by my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) and have cros - party support . I really hope that that cross - party support hold up in the vote . as we have hear , disability do not stop at peak time . I represent a rural constituency and our bus be very infrequent , so have a time restriction on a bus pass be even more serious . as a member of the all - party parliamentary group on classic , I enjoy a good tale about mythological creature such as centaur and the minotaur , but unfortunately for some of my constituent , see a bus be almost as likely as see one of they . remarkably , there be no Sunday bus service at all in most of my constituency . we have one of the great cathedral in the world , but many of my resident can not get to it for Sunday worship . some of my village have no bus at all , and the like of Coveney and Wardy Hill have one bus per week . other have bus service every two hour — those service be probably some of the good . if we restrict disabled people to use their pass after 9 . 30 , they can not catch the 9 . 20 bus and have to wait for the 11 . 20 , so effectively they can not do anything anywhere else in the morning . that can not be right . we have to remove that restriction . the current situation be not sustainable or acceptable . for rural community , the situation be so dire that the recent risk of the 9 bus route between Littleport and Cambridge be halt mean that community face be unable to get to work or college . constituent refer to this service as a lifeline for they , and they be right . to have a situation in 2025 where the ending of a single bus route make entire community a transport black hole be dreadful . it be just not acceptable . have resident be properly consult , I be certain the proposal would have be comprehensively reject , which be why I support new clause 32 table by my hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( John Milne ) to require consultation before any discussion on the alteration or withdrawal of a local bus service . I know the new clause have not be select , but I hope the Minister will consider it . the Government ' s decision to increase the bus fare cap hit my constituent hard , because many of they have to get more than one bus to complete their journey . I ask both for the cap to be bring back to £ 2 and for it to be a cap on the journey , not the fare for each bus someone catch . it should not be too much to ask for a basic , functional and affordable transport service for rural community . pensioner should not have to miss medical appointment because there be only one bus per hour , student should not have to worry about miss class , disabled people should not have to miss anything in the morning , and people should not have to move from their home village for the sake of get to work on time . this Bill be positive , but the Government need to do a lot more to improve transport service in rural community such as mine . it would be a start if we allow the disabled member of those community to catch bus at any time . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in support of the Bill and new clause 46 and 66 table by my hon . friend the Member for Dunstable and Leighton Buzzard ( Alex Mayer ) . the Bill represent a step towards give community great control over their local transport network . colleague across the House recognise how vital bus service be for connect people to opportunity , to each other and to the service they rely on . sadly , bus be too frequently undervalue because they do not have the visible impact of a train . it be perhaps fitting that the Bill come at a time when we be experience a tube strike in London , and our colleague base in London can understand what those of we outside London feel have an entirely dysfunctional public transport network . I want to raise two point that I hope the Minister and colleague will take on board as we move towards implementation . in my Calder Valley constituency , which the Minister know well , we have see a number of service withdraw or reduce in frequency , particularly in the upper Calder Valley . those change have leave many resident feel cut off , especially in area where alternative transport be simply not available . I welcome the extension of franchise power to all local authority . that be long overdue , and it be a step that give community such as mine the chance to shape bus network to make those network work for they . I urge the Government to consider how these power can be support with the necessary funding and guidance , so that council can act decisively to protect route that be essential to community life . the second point I want to raise be about franchising . I support West Yorkshire combine authority ' s plan to bring service under public control and to build a network that put passenger at its heart . cross - boundary route — those that run into Lancashire or Greater Manchester — will not automatically be part of the franchise . while the Bill allow for some alternative arrangement , there be a real risk that those route could be overlook . we be a border county and a border country , and I be keen to ensure that the need of my resident in Todmorden who go to work or school in Burnley be not overlook . I know WYCA be committed to work with neighbouring authority , and I hope the Government will support that collaboration . passenger in Calder Valley and across the country do not plan their journey around administrative boundary or transport operation , and we need to be mindful of that . I be confident that the Bill will provide a well , fair bus network , and I be proud that it be another example of this government make people ' s day - to - day live well . but we must ensure that isolated community across boundary route such as those in Calder Valley be not leave behind . I look forward to work with Front - Bench colleague to ensure that those voice be hear . I will speak to new clause 2 bring forward by my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) , which would extend the eligibility of disabled bus pass . the current restriction , which mean disabled bus pass can only be use after 9 . 30 be , have real and disproportionate consequence for disabled constituent , particularly those who rely on public transport as their only mean of get around . for many disabled people , bus be a lifeline . they be the gateway to essential medical appointment , employment opportunity , education and social connection , and they mean the difference between isolation and independence . in rural area such as Frome and East Somerset , where bus service be already limited , there be a particular challenge . as have be point out by my colleague , if someone miss the morning bus because their pass be not valid until 9 . 30 be , that can mean wait several hour more and be late for work . furthermore , some of we in this place represent constituency that straddle more than one local authority . in those area , a postcode lottery have emerge : disabled resident live just a few mile apart be subject to different rule . one person ' s bus pass might allow travel before 9 . 30 be , while their neighbour , who live just across an invisible council border , be force to wait . I have see that issue arise at first hand in my constituency . I have be campaign with Hettie , a diamond bus pass user who live in Radstock in my constituency and commute to Bath for work . Radstock fall under the West of England combine authority . when Hettie raise the unfairness of the 9 . 30 be restriction on disabled bus pass , I write to WECA , and I be pleased to say that it respond positively and extend the validity of the pass to 24 hour a day . that be a significant and meaningful win for people in one half of my constituency . however , the other half , who live under Somerset council , remain restricted and be still unable to use their pass before 9 . 30 am . how can that possibly be fair when all that separate they be an invisible line ? we can not talk about level up or dignity in public life while ignore the daily barrier face by disabled people . nor can we claim to support rural community while expect vulnerable resident to navigate a postcode lottery of restriction that limit their independence and opportunity . I urge the Minister to look closely at the benefit of remove those time restriction altogether . let we give disabled people one less barrier to face in their everyday life and move toward a system that treat all with fairness , dignity and respect . I rise to speak in favour of new clause 21 , which stand in my name . many member may be unaware that the fare cap that apply to single bus journey do not apply to service that be provide exclusively to take child to and from school . that be why my new clause call for the national £ 3 bus fare cap to be extend to all school route , and for any future change to the cap to be apply to school - only transport , too . I be grateful to the Members from across the House who have add their name in support of my new clause . in Poole and across England , the exclusion of school route from the fare cap have leave family pay more simply to get their child to school — that can not be right . local parent , especially those who might have two or more child attend different school in the area , have complain to I about the unfairness and additional financial pressure that they face as a result . I have raise that with the local bus provider , Morebus , and although it be sympathetic to the argument , it will not act unless instruct to do so in legislation . I have also raise the matter with the Department and with the Minister , but , as he will recall , I be tell that my proposal be too difficult to achieve through the Bill . I therefore urge he to reconsider that approach when he respond to the debate . I be sure that member will recognise the very obvious unfairness . the cap apply for a child who get on an ordinary bus that take they past their school , but for a child on a school - only bus , the fare be high . as well as that unjustifiable situation , parent be concerned that they can not buy their school ticket in instalment and often have to fund the entire cost of their child ' s bus journey on a termly basis . that can be expensive and discourage many family from use the bus as their preferred mean of school transport . I see bus service in the way I see most policy : through the lens of make life easy for family in Poole work hard to get by . the Bill offer significant step towards build a transport network that be genuinely accessible , affordable and reliable . the Government must also be guide by their mission of ensure that every child have the good start in life . that mission can not be confine to a single department or a handful of policy . it must run like a thread through Government Departments and be hardwire into how we set priority and deliver change . labour value must underpin everything we do . extend the £ 3 bus fare cap to school route be one practical way that the Government can ease the everyday struggle that parent face and make family life that little bit easy . this simple but impactful measure would reduce the cost of get child to school , particularly for family with multiple child , and free up parent who would otherwise drive as part of the school run . it would mean low cost for working family and less pressure on parent juggle a daily mountain of responsibility . that also line up closely with the Minister ' s ambition to get more people out of pollute car and into public transport , which I be keen to support . I recognise that put more money in the pocket of work people require broad change , but measure such as extend the bus fare cap to school route could make a tangible difference to day - to - day life while build a fair and more accessible transport system for everyone . I therefore urge the Minister to consider new clause 21 seriously and to see how the Government can address the unfair anomaly on school - only bus travel . day in , day out , I hear from people across my constituency — from Polegate to Plumpton — who want to use the bus but simply can not do so . People must be at the heart of transport policy , so let I begin with one example from my constituency . I recently hear from a woman in Wilmington village who want to get to her job in Lewes by bus but can not do so at present . to do so , she must travel in the wrong direction to polegate , wait , then take a slow service through multiple village . what would be a 15 - minute drive become an hour or more on the bus , so she drive . that be not a lifestyle choice ; it be a failure of network design . this Bill could give we the tool to put that right , if we use they properly . the A27 in my constituency desperately need a direct service between Eastbourne and Lewes , and we must make that happen . the stop be on the road ; there be just no bus to serve they . that be exactly why I support amendment 2 , on socially necessary route , so that journey to work , school and health service be guarantee , even when the market will not deliver . franchising power in the Bill mean that our local transport authority could finally design service around what people need , not what happen to be commercially convenient . the new duty to provide socially necessary route must make that real . our amendment would ensure that if the market will not deliver , the authority must step in and be properly fund to do so . the A27 express should be at the top of that list . I recently hear from a young lady in Stone Cross in my constituency who try to get to college . bus fail to appear — one recently sail by she when she be wait — and that mean lose education time . the power in the Bill on performance , datum and enforcement must bite . we must publish stop - level reliability and give local transport authority the lever to withhold payment for no - show and require operator recovery plan . we must also back our " headphone dodger " amendment , so that authority can make byelaw against sustained antisocial noise . safe , civil journey retain passenger . much like the case in Stone Cross , I see the same story repeat in the village of Ringmer . an 85 - year - old constituent depend on the bus to reach the Tesco in Lewes , yet sometimes it never arrive , and at other time the driver simply drive on by . that be not a public service ; it be a gamble . if people be to use these service , they must be able to rely on they . that be why I back amendment 11 , on accessible stop place and reliability . we must ensure that information be clear , that driver be train and that passenger be not leave strand . rural village across my constituency send the same message : they have gap , long wait , and first and last bus that do not work for people ' s real life . community transport service be a lifeline in rural area where commercial route do not run . in my constituency , volunteer - lead Cuckmere Buses and CTLA keep people connect . the Sussex Art Shuttle , run by Cuckmere Buses , show how small , community - drive transport project can open up access and enrich local life . these scheme run on tight budget and good will , yet they deliver where the market will not . amendment 9 would recognise their value and ensure that funding stream work for they , not against they . there be also the Flexibus scheme , a forward - think initiative from East Sussex county council show how a local authority can take control and fill the gap leave by traditional service . with book available by app or phone , it be a practical , people - centre service that make rural transport work for many . new clause 8 , on vat rule for demand - responsive service , would make it easy for such scheme , allow council to innovate locally and deliver real solution for community . sadly , in Lewes we have lose our bus station . year of campaigning could not save it . the result be an interchange tack on to the Phoenix Causeway bridge — busy , expose and in the wrong place . it be not possible to grow ridership while dismantle the place where people change bus . we should give local transport authority explicit power , duty and funding to safeguard and replace our interchange as part of franchising scheme . that be why new clause 5 , on accessibility report so that bus station and interchange be explicitly safeguard and properly plan , be so important . the upcoming Budget must unlock much - need funding for major road that be congest and therefore delay bus service . I have raise the a259 in my constituency directly with the Prime Minister in this place . it be a vicious cycle : congestion hold back bus , people turn back to car , and traffic get bad . well bus mean few car , and a transition to a zero emission fleet must be central to how we plan for the future . affordability underpin all of this . the Liberal Democrats ' new clause 1 would restore the £ 2 fare cap , which work well ; it put money back in pocket and passenger back on seat . lift it be a bus tax on work , study and care . our new clause would restore the cap and require a formal assessment of the impact of hike . we go far : new clause 9 would provide free travel for those on carer ' s allowance , and new clause 2 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) , would remove time restriction for disabled concessionary pass . this Bill will be judge not by what it promise on paper , but whether it deliver for people who wait at the bus stop , and I hope this Government will deliver that . I rise to speak to new clause 2 , which cover issue of accessibility . my old , young and disabled constituent often tell I that they be leave strand , endure painfully long waiting time due to unreliable bus service , and face distressing situation such as toilete issue , miss NHS appointment or arrive late at school . this be the reality of fail bus service face by many constituent across my Penistone and Stocksbridge constituency as a result of the conservative legacy . this be unacceptable , as I mention on Second Reading , when reform mps could not even be bother to show up — where be they today ? when I be grow up , our South Yorkshire transport system be the envy of the world , but 14 year of the Conservatives ' north - south transport divide and their broken promise of a London - style transport system for South Yorkshire in reality mean that my constituency lose 53 % of its bus service , with a paltry 38 % spend per head on our doorstep compare with London . and the SL1 tram link bus be scrap , leave many of my constituent unable to continue to work or to go to college in Sheffield . our local community have help build the prosperity of this great nation . from the speciality steelwork in Stocksbridge and the farmer across Penistone , to the advanced manufacturing site across Chapeltown , my constituent be among the hard work people we could ever meet . the hon . Lady and I share a huge concern for ensure access to all type of transport , include bus , for the disabled of every kind . do she agree that the strike in London , which be cripple transport service , be cause great harm to the disabled community here than in any other part of the country ? the accessibility plan that this Bill will now put in place will dramatically improve the accessibility of bus network up and down this country . my constituent have the potential to be the beat heart of british growth , with good , well - connect public transport that unleash their potential . our Labour Government have already begin to power this change for transport . South Yorkshire be already set to benefit from £ 1 . 5 billion of extra transport funding under this government , add £ 20 billion to our regional economy . I be proud to support the Bill , which will finally end the Tories ' postcode lottery of bus service and will save and create vital bus route by support every community to take back control of our bus network . through new power to set route , fare and service , community will finally have a proper say in the essential service that they rely on , instead of route and fare be leave to the whim of unaccountable private operator . transport inequality lead to health inequality too , which be why it be fantastic that as a result of the work do in the Lords , the Bill will also require local transport authority — as I say to the hon . member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Alison Griffiths ) — to produce bus network accessibility plan . furthermore , driver disability awareness training will become mandatory for the first time . as a result of the measure in the Bill , our Labour South Yorkshire mayor , Oliver Coppard , will be far empower to take back control of our bus with franchising . secure the reintroduction of the SL1 tram link bus in my constituency be my top priority as part of that scheme . so , too , be vital improvement to the no . 21 bus serve Penistone , Dodworth and surround rural village , which be some of the bad serve by poor bus route in the country , after a decade and a half of Tory transport inequality . in my constituency , I have already be crack on to deliver well bus , help my old and disabled constituent . last month , I launch the beautiful new no . 35 hopper bus , the Little Don circular around Stocksbridge and Deepcar . the vital no . 34 extension bus connect the village of Bolsterstone for the first time in a decade . my constituent have describe the new service as " a thrilling improvement to " their " quality of life " and a lifeline that have enable they " to cope with life ' s necessity , not strand and dependent on other " . but I do not want to stop there . I want to work with the Government , my constituent and our labour mayor to look at additional hopper route around Wharncliffe Side , Oughtibridge and Grenoside to connect to a reinstated SL1 tram link bus . my constituency be the gateway to the Peak District , and I will continue to work with the national park team well to connect local beauty spot such as Langsett with new bus route . my constituent be already see the benefit of this Government ' s choice on transport . the Bill will bring well bus transport close to home . equitable access to transport connectivity be the golden thread that weave our urban and rural community together , that keep our family and friendship close , and that ensure that people grow up and grow old in my constituency can fulfil their potential . I will speak mainly to new clause 32 and 33 in my name . there be a lot to like in the Bill , but it be at its weak where it touch on rural area . that be a great shame , because if we could solve transport , we could also solve the rural productivity problem . economic inactivity be nearly two - and - a - half time high in rural area than it be in urban area , and that be directly relate to transport issue . if we could boost rural productivity to urban level , it would fix the Chancellor ' s Budget deficit in one go . the key freedom that the Bill bring be to support local authority that want to establish a bus franchise or to set up their own municipal service . if we stand back to look at the scale of the challenge , however , do we really think that that will be enough to reverse the long - term decline in rural area ? the answer must be no . give how cash - strapped and under - resource most local authority be , it be clear that most will be unable to take advantage of that freedom without additional support . in my previous life as a West Sussex county councillor , I serve on a committee consider a bus improvement plan , but the measure we be give to look at be all small and tactical . no one on that committee believe that the plan would change the curve . too many local authority long ago surrender to a tacit acceptance of manage decline . that have to change — hence my new clause 33 , which would set out a new duty actively to promote and increase bus usage . the key paradox that must be solve be why , if public demand for bus service be so high , usage be always drop . clearly , price be one issue , but the service have also become increasingly mismatch with local need . in West Sussex , a 2021 survey find that 80 % of resident have stop use bus because of a lack of a suitable route or infrequency of service — that be a huge percentage of the potential market to give away . the problem , especially in rural area , be that what we have leave today be a legacy service — the ghostly outline of route and frequency that exist year ago . we have fight a long defensive war of attrition , and we have be lose . individual route have be salami - slice to destruction . that be why I have table new clause 32 to require local authority to consult in advance on significant service change . in my constituency of Horsham , resident of Partridge Green discover they be lose their direct no . 17 service to town only when they see the new timetable . in Slinfold , the no . 63 be remove altogether , also without any warning . the county council say that the change be nothing to do with they , and they be the responsibility of the commercial operator , but the operator say that they be up to the council . there be simply no one leave at the wheel of our local bus service . when I look at the huge public reaction as villager fight to save their service after the axe have already fall , I could not help but wonder what might have be . what might have happen if we could have harness that enthusiasm to create a service that meet people ' s transport need ? we have be beat down , over many year , into accept that it be impossible to fix the problem , yet Switzerland , Austria and Germany , in area with far low population density than many area of the UK , be provide all - day , every - hour service , seven day a week . we can do that too , if we have the will . it be good to see bus service get legislative attention , and I appreciate that , but I hope that the Government do not think that this Bill will be nearly enough by itself . I urge the Government to make a special study of the need of rural area , which have be a recur theme during the debate , and work out what it would take to genuinely reverse decline . it be a pleasure to speak in the debate . I support new clause 22 , introduce by my hon . friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) , who be temporarily not in his place . it would require the Secretary of State to conduct a review into the minimum bus service standard require for community in England . what member notice when they come to London from rural constituency , such as my constituency in Suffolk , be all the red bus , all over the place . route run from early in the morning until late into the evening , in no small part because of the year of excellent Labour administration that Londoners have enjoy . out in Suffolk , we certainly do not have a fully integrate bus service . for a start , there be simply not enough bus . from 2010 , a decade of decline public funding leave the interwoven jumble of local bus map look decisively threadbare . from 2018 to 2024 , 18 % of bus service in my county council area simply vanish . in Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket , I have be support resident fight to save local bus route , and I be sure that many hon . member will have be do exactly the same in their area . in Bury St Edmunds , we manage to get the 73 and 73a bus route retain , which be essential for get child to school at the Thurston community college . at Marham Park , where resident be in danger of be fully cut off , we do the same , thank to £ 8 million of funding from the Government . in the year to come , we will far undo the loss of bus service : some 17 new or improved bus route be roll out just this month across Suffolk . if people be lucky enough to live on a route that survive the last 15 year , the problem be that they will be hard pressed to find a bus that go anywhere after 5 o ' clock in the afternoon . imagine a lady from the village of Honington , in my constituency , who have to attend a 4 . 30 pm appointment at the West Suffolk hospital about her dodgy knee . the 332 bus run from Honington to Bury St Edmunds four time a day , so she catch the 2 . 40 pm bus and arrive in Bury St Edmunds with an hour to spare . she have her appointment and she get out of the hospital after an hour , so at 5 . 30 pm she be stand outside the hospital and she can not get home . she have miss the last bus and she be stick in Bury St Edmunds . she can not march 10 mile home , because she have a dodgy knee , and she have no friend , so she get a taxi . a taxi be £ 35 , but our imaginary lady have no choice — she have to pay that £ 35 . we cap the cost of a bus fare at £ 3 , but we all know that for lot of real people in rural area , inadequate bus service mean that transport cost easily spiral out of control . that be why we need to critically examine the minimum bus service standard require across community in England . many member have speak about CPRE , which have mention that some country such as Switzerland legally mandate public transport frequency for community of different size . the amendment table by the hon . member for North East Hertfordshire — who still have not return to the Chamber — will ensure that progress be make towards undo some of the inequality that have build up in transport , and will move we much close to the unified transport model that we all know we need . I rise to support amendment that will serve to ensure the most vulnerable and isolated people in our community be not cut off from employment , health service , education and leisure . I will start with new clause 2 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) , who have just return to the Chamber . that new clause would remove the start time from the use of disabled bus pass . I must declare an interest , as my own son George have one of those pass . it be a crucial element of help young people with disability to gain their independence , and for teenager and young adult with additional need , it be a far more cost - effective option for access college and school than provide costly and isolate taxi . the bus pass that George and many of his classmate hold can not be use on the way to school — in our case , that be two bus and two fare — but can be use on the return journey . while that cause frustration to parent such as I , for other , it be completely unaffordable . it force many of they to use the offer council taxi , which be crippling council . for those who be able to drive , blue badge be not time - restrict ; why should those on a bus pass be discriminate against ? we know that people with disability be less likely to be in employment , so anything that reduce barrier to work should be grasp by this Government . when this issue be raise in an Adjournment debate by my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough , the Minister point to the cost , but as the proposal would affect only disabled bus pass and not the whole concessionary bus pass scheme , it would apply to only 10 % of pass , so the cost be fairly low . I turn to liberal Democrat new clause 7 and 16 , as well as new clause 36 , table by my hon . friend the Member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) , which relate to young people . the very first motion I put to my party conference , back in 2014 , propose extend discount bus fare for young people . that policy make it into the follow Lib Dem manifesto , and have remain in some form ever since . I cite a case then that apply now : that of a young person from Bere Regis who secure an apprenticeship in Bournemouth . they be no long eligible for a free bus pass to access the college course , because for some reason , when the age of participation be increase , the age of bus travel be not . they have to take several bus each day to access their job . the cost of do so take up such a large proportion of their income , and the service to their village be so poor , that they have to give up their apprenticeship . if we be to make bus service sustainable into the future , they need to be a genuine choice for young people : an alternative to buy a car or a motorbike . if we be to deal with congestion and air quality and reach our net zero target , we need public transport to be a real option for everyone . achieve long - term change typically start with young people . it make sense — young people be familiar with use bus for school , so extend discount so that they have they available as they start in the world of work or high education be most likely to deliver the long - term change that we need . student from the Purbeck school and Magna academy have all write to I confused about why they be not eligible for discount bus fare , even though they be now expect to stay at school . this policy feel like a clear oversight from a previous government , and one that could be easily fix by this Government . I also support my neighbouring MP , the hon . member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) , who have propose a cap extension for school service . not extend the cap to those service be incredibly unfair . I have also be lobby on the issue , particularly by family live in Merley , who be just about within the three - mile window . during my village tour in the summer — whether I be in Bere Regis , Gaunt ' s Common , Shapwick or Hinton Martell — the no . 1 issue that come up be bus . community that be cut off from bus service can not thrive , so I welcome amendment 6 , 7 , 28 and 29 and new clause 4 and 15 , which would ensure that such community be consider and — whether it be via commercial service or community minibus — that small village be not cut off . it seem ironic that british people always use the phrase , " you wait for a bus and then two come along at once . " for thousand of my constituent in Mid Dorset and North Poole village , just one every so often would be nice . my amendment 66 and new clause 46 be not intend to change Government policy , nor to bind the hand of locally elect mayor or transport authority — quite the opposite . amendment 66 , which my hon Friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , the Chair of the Transport Committee , talk about some considerable time ago , would require local transport authority to set out a clear , transparent formula for calculate whether a service be socially necessary and then to use that formula in decide how funding be allocate . that reflect recommendation 53 in the Transport Committee ' s " bus connect community " report . amendment 66 would purposefully give local leader flexibility to create their own formula , because the Minister be right that priority will differ from place to place . the amendment would not be a diktat from Whitehall , but a window into decision making , for the first time allow resident to see what be be prioritise and why . the amendment would make it clear where the cut - off point for taxpayer support lie when resource be scarce . it could also empower local community . for example , if one criterion in the formula be usage , passenger or would - be passenger could rally together , use a bus and protect it by use it more . more importantly , the amendment would stop support service list from stagnate . as a new development spring up , its need might then be include . the amendment would curb the risk that the loud voice secure the good bus . we would have service design and funding guide not by noise , but by number . I very much welcome the Minister ' s assurance that socially necessary local service guidance will ask local authority to publish a description of the methodology use , but give that he now accept the principle , I see no reason why we should not put it in the Bill to future - proof this concept . new clause 46 , which I also table , relate to a growth duty . I want to give local leader the tool they need to do the job . as I have say before in this place , it be wrong to pigeonhole local transport authority as the place of stick - plaster solution . success lie in active local leader embrace a network - wide approach . that will inevitably mean tough decision and trade - off . it will sometimes mean the choice to enhance one route over support another , such as by increase the frequency of a well - use exist service , extend the operate hour of a commercially viable bus or add some extra stop at either end of a route . give that we be about to have in primary legislation more obligation on socially necessary service , we should balance that with a duty in legislation for the LTA to consider use some public money to grow and improve its exist local bus service , because in the round that be the way we get well bus . the Minister have suggest that new BSIP guidance will address those point , but I gently say that BSIP guidance can change . the original 2021 bus service improvement plan mechanism be specifically not about support exist route , and then there be an about - turn in 2023 with BSIP + . legislation , not guidance , should support local leader to make the call on service enhancement and provide the ability to try new and innovative approach when the goal be to grow passenger number . after all , grow passenger number be ingrain in the national bus strategy , and I be pleased that the Minister mention it in the first part of his opening remark . I welcome the Minister ' s constructive engagement as we have discuss set standard to increase ridership through statutory guidance on stop place . we have also discuss franchise guidance and be clear that it be not enough just to consult current passenger — we need would - be passenger , too . after all , we need more people on bus , and everything we do have to be about encourage more passenger . More farebox mean well service overall . on that note , I thank Grant Palmer for what it do in Dunstable recently , and I also thank the Dawsongroup for bring a bus to Parliament as part of catch the Bus Month . this September , I wish all member and you , Madam Deputy Speaker , a very happy catch the Bus Month . two week ago , the no . 61 bus make its final journey — yet another bus service my constituent rely on have be lose , with no apparent thought give to how people be suppose to get to work , school , college or hospital appointment , or simply from a to b . the withdrawal of the 61 , which take resident directly to Winchester hospital , will make life significantly hard for many of my constituent . that be why I support new clause 37 , which would guarantee every town a regular bus service to hospital and GP surgery , and amendment 2 , which would ensure that socially necessary route include those serve hospital , school and college . as well as the 61 , we have see the withdrawal of the 461 , the major route that serve Peter Symonds college , and the 46 , which be an important service for the resident of Valley Park . they be cut because they be not consider commercially viable , but healthcare and education be essential service . no one should be leave isolated from a school , college or hospital simply because a bus company can not turn a profit . in addition to cut to bus service , Conservative - control Hampshire county council ' s decision to withdraw discretionary top - up enhancement to the English national concessionary travel scheme have increase challenge for my disabled constituent . I support new clause 2 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) , because disabled people must not be unfairly restrict in when they can travel . the removal of the companion bus pass and the restriction of free travel to between 9 . 30 am and 11 pm create fresh barrier for many disabled people , include the 55 , 100 visually impair resident in Hampshire . last month , I visit the Guide Dogs community team centre in Chandler ' s Ford , where I speak to constituent who be deeply worried about the cut . one tell I she now struggle to reach medical appointment , while another , due to her disability , prefer early morning bus to avoid bright sunlight , which cause her severe eye pain . I have be support Guide Dogs ' campaign to make sure that people with a visual impairment can travel independently and with confidence . many visually impair constituent understandably require assistance to travel safely , often rely on friend and family to accompany they to work , school and medical appointment . I have hear from constituent that lose access to the companion pass have mean that they be travel less and resort to costly method of travel , include taxi , to get around . the saving to the council be minimal compare with the cost to my constituent ' quality of life . that be why new clause 2 , which would remove time restriction on disabled concessionary pass , and new clause 9 , which would extend free travel to carer , be so important . they would help restore independence and dignity to those who need public transport the most . I hope the Government will accept the amendment that I have address and ensure that socially necessary route be protect , because my constituent need affordable , reliable bus now . I have the pleasure of serve on the Bill Committee , and I be pleased to see the Bill back before the House . although it do good work , it simply do not go far enough in its ambition or its delivery of the change we need — that be apparent from the number of amendment table on Report . one of the really important amendment for I be new clause 12 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) . I spend the final week in August visit dozen of North Norfolk ' s village as part of my summer tour . I hear about a huge range of issue , but a consistent theme across my area be frustration with our bus . Shirley and David in Hindringham tell I that two bus a day just be not enough to get they to the place they need to go at the time they want to get there . they be right : that be indicative of a system that serve nobody in rural area like mine . it be not just anecdote that back up that feeling ; the number do , too . those of we in the east of England get less than half the spend per head on transport as those in London . we accept that the transport system in our capital be different and that , overall , more money end up be need to accommodate the million who need it , but to spend on each individual Londoner more than double the amount that be spend on my resident be patently unfair — and that be before we consider the advantage that urban area have . they be set up for carry out public transport . run a bus network through a busy , well - populate area will always be easy and cheap per head than have to dart around country lane , pick up at small village a handful of time a day . I be excited about the prospect of franchising , which could bring real benefit to Norfolk ' s bus service . however , rural area like mine be embark on the unknown . franchising have a track record in big city such as Manchester and London , but how we make it work in other area with different characteristic remain unknown . that be why new clause 12 be so important . we should not be prescriptive , and nobody want to force area into pre - design template , but we have to offer they suitable support and off - the - shelf model so that they do not go through it totally alone . as the Transport Committee , of which I be a member , find in its " bus connect community " inquiry , there be a lot to learn from elsewhere when it come to run successful bus network , especially in rural area . without provide some of that knowledge in the form of clearly research and define transport model option , I worry that we be set up another postcode lottery , whereby the quality of how these new power be use depend on whether a transport authority get lucky in try to make a new scheme work . I speak in Committee about how one such model should be a rural bus hub - and - speak network , which would give the most coverage possible to as many area as possible . try to reach every single village all the time just be not feasible , and we have to accept that . what be feasible be make sure that every village be near to a rural bus hub that be accessible through walk , cycling or a short drive . these hub , if connect to one another , will finally create a rural network . we have to start challenge old idea about how rural public transport work , and to be bold in the solution we take forward . I be very supportive of new clause 2 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) . to its credit , Norfolk county council have voluntarily expand the time when people can use a disability bus pass , and I have hear positive testimony of how this have help many people in my area . People across the country should be able to benefit from that equally , so I hope the Government will support new clause 2 tonight . I make no apology for constantly bang on about bus . it can not be beyond we to build a rural bus network that take people where they want to go , when they want to go there . I welcome the step that the Government be take , but I urge they to seize the opportunity before they . they should not let this Bill go through as an unfunded damp squib that create some new power , with no help in their delivery . I hope they will take the suggestion of member on board tonight , and make this the well possible Bill to drive forward the much - need rural bus revolution . I will speak to new clause 1 and 2 , and amendment 9 . this government be give more power to local authority , such as the franchising of local bus service . they expect council to fund more bus service , while they undermine and reduce council ' core funding at the same time . our amendment 3 would require the Secretary of State to assess the adequacy of central Government funding to support franchise scheme . that be essential because , due to the pandemic , bus service usage massively decline in my constituency of Wokingham . since then , the Lib Dem - run council have act to improve local bus service , increase the frequency of service on key route . it be now predict that bus service in Wokingham will recover to pre - pandemic rate . the Lib Dem - run council have do that despite be one of the lowest - fund unitary authority in the country , but labour ' s new council funding formula will take £ 47 million away from Wokingham over the next three year . how can the Labour Government expect council such as Wokingham to improve service and take on the responsibility create by this Bill without proper support from Government , as be call for in amendment 3 ? I wholeheartedly support new clause 2 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) , which propose that time restriction be remove from disabled people ' s concessionary pass . that would be widely welcome by many of my constituent . I also support new clause 1 , table by the Liberal Democrats , which would restore the £ 2 fare cap . that would help young and old constituent in my Wokingham constituency . there be a lot to welcome in the Bill , and I support the overarching aim . however , there be several important detail that very much concern small operator and community transport provider in my Witney constituency , and I shall speak on their behalf . they include West Oxfordshire Community Transport , include Andrew Coles , Andrew Lyon and their team , and David Miles and Amanda , who have do so much to get the First & Last Mile move . my fear be that the franchising framework and new training requirement stipulate in the Bill will squeeze out community operator and that the social and economic cost will be severe , particularly in rural area where mainstream operator have withdraw . section 22 community bus permit holder , who provide transport on a not - for - profit basis without the need for a full public service vehicle operator licence , ensure a service in community that would otherwise be completely unserve . the Bill currently do not recognise this category at all . that raise a couple of worry . one particular worry be that the new driver safeguarding and training requirement could become unworkable for small fleet . the Bill ' s provision do not clearly differentiate between private hire vehicle — dedicated school bus — and public service bus which may sometimes carry schoolchildren as part of the general route . in practice , that mean that every driver would need full safeguarding training , regardless of the service they normally operate . for large company that would be manageable , but for small operator with mixed or volunteer driver , such as West Oxfordshire Community Transport and First & Last , the infrastructure to train and certify every single driver at short notice simply do not exist . community bus service already provide some training for their driver , volunteer and employee , but we be seek proportionate requirement for driver and transitional support to help small operator to meet new reporting and training burden . another real threat for community operator be around franchising and tender . small and community operator risk be lock out of very complex bidding process and a lack of guarantee inclusion in they . compete for franchise contract demand administrative and legal capacity well beyond what a volunteer - lead organisation can manage . what be need to address that be explicit protection for community operator within franchising model . there be much to welcome in the Bill , but I say again that there be a risk of some unintended consequence . I ask the Minister to look into they . over the summer recess , I hold surgery in 52 town and village across my constituency and an issue that come up again and again and again be bus , or rather the lack of they . many community in my rural constituency be now effectively cut off . some have just one or two bus a day , but other , such as Bigbury , St Ann ' s Chapel and Ringmore , have no service at all . since 2015 , bus journey in Devon have fall by 40 % . under the previous Conservative Government , service be cut , scale back or make so unreliable that they be no long usable . I do not think it be a coincidence that not a single conservative Back Bencher be in the House to talk about the state of our bus service . since the election last year , the cut have continue . the Gold bus , which go from Plymouth and Torbay and be a vital connection for lot of rural community between large economic centre , have be downgrade this month . this be not just about inconvenience ; it be about opportunity or the lack of it . bus connect people to job , education , healthcare and each other . without a convenient , frequent and affordable service , people of all age be be leave behind . in some area , the last bus leave before the work day end , strand carer , hospitality worker and student , and stifle our visitor economy . that be why I support amendment 2 , 5 and 6 , which require local transport authority to identify socially necessary route and ensure service provision where commercial service be unable to meet demand . transport planning must reflect the reality of people ' s daily life , and access to healthcare and education should not be dictate by commercial viability . Devon have the large county road network in the country , but only seven commercially viable route . we need more bus , not few , to encourage more regular usage — it become a virtuous circle . public transport play a crucial role in iron out inequality . in a session on child poverty this morning in this place , transport come up several time as an element that be contribute to child poverty level . when I visit school and college , I regularly hear about the prohibitive cost of public transport . even just a few pound for a journey be a significant amount for a student and hit disadvantaged student the hard . this be why I support new clause 6 and 17 to offer discount for under - 25s and those in post - 16 education , to ensure that transport be not a barrier to education or employment . another issue affect resident in my constituency be the postcode lottery on concessionary bus pass . in Devon and Torbay , as many other have say , usage be restrict to after 9 . 30 be on weekday , which mean that resident may not be able to attend early medical appointment or get to work on time . as this Government be keen to encourage disabled people back into the workplace , that must be look at . Devon county council tell I that the revenue support grant mechanism provide by central Government have fall substantially since it be introduce , to the point that the scheme be now primarily financially support through council ' own revenue budget . concessionary travel in the Devon county council area be expect to cost nearly £ 8 million this financial year , while the cost of offer pre - 9 . 30 be travel to all passholder be estimate to be £ 2 million per annum . I be really proud to support new clause 2 , put forward by my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) , which would remove time restriction on the use of concessionary travel pass , but local authority must be properly fund for it . in the face of all the challenge , local people be step up , and I would like to highlight the incredible community - run service we have in South Devon , include Bob the Bus , the West Dart bus and the Coleridge bus — group help to fight rural isolation , reduce loneliness and provide a vital lifeline to those who would otherwise be cut off . these service be under grow pressure . small transport operator should be prioritise for grant from local transport authority , ensure that they can continue to support those who rely on their service . I therefore support amendment 9 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) , whose work on the Bill I commend . public transport in rural community be a basic service , but right now , in far too many part of South Devon , it simply do not exist . while I support the many positive measure in the Bill , we must go far to fully address the need of rural area and ensure that no community be cut off . decent public transport alleviate poverty , reduce the number of car on the road and enable the young , the elderly and those who can not drive or afford a car to participate fully in the economic and social life of their community . it do require serious investment , but the gain to be have from this financial commitment be exponential . the previous Government waste £ 2 . 5 billion on the cancel leg of High Speed 2 , which be almost enough to fund a service to every village every hour of every day across England — imagine the transformational power of that if the right choice be make . I thank my fellow member and the chair of the Public Bill Committee for the work they do ; I feel work on the Committee be very constructive from the different Opposition Members . it follow some very constructive amendment that be make and agree in the other place , too , include on village and vision zero for road danger . I be sad to see so many good idea defeat and remove in Committee . I think this issue cross party boundary ; it should be about practicality , not party politic . on road danger , I be pleased to have table new clause 41 , 42 and 43 , with support from member of the RMT , which seek to improve safety through driver support and wellbeing . these measure be all necessary to achieve vision zero for road danger for our bus . I be full of support for new clause 2 and other measure that seek to remove time restriction on concessionary bus pass . have these time restriction be a major disincentive to work . the Government can not keep dodge this contradiction in their stated policy , and must act to enable disabled people ' s mobility and enact real equality . young people , too , have receive attention with the new clause table by the hon . member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) and in liberal Democrat measure . I myself have table new clause 44 , which seek simply to enact a policy that be already in place in Scotland in order to give free bus travel to anyone under the age of 22 . today , however , I want to advocate mainly for clean air , as the promoter of the Clean Air ( Human Rights ) Bill — Ella ' s law — and for toilet access to be take seriously by Government in relation to bus . my amendment 62 and 64 would help to fix those policy gap . the clause in the Bill on zero emission bus seem to block the high ambition by not set the early date for a mandate on new procurement of zero emission bus until 2030 . that be a really long time still to be buy dirty , diesel - power bus . it be extremely poor when dirty air be a killer , and when in certain street and hotspot — often where the least advantaged live — clean bus can make a real difference and it be in the gift of public authority to deal with it . I believe that the Mayor of London and Transport for London begin procure zero emission bus only as long ago as 2021 . give that some London route be very long indeed , such bus could be introduce in other area much soon . with the right help and investment , the infrastructure could be build and good , green job could be fill , as imply by the hon . member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) . I have yet to hear good reason from Ministers why the clause be so tragically unenterprising . another vital issue of equality be ensure that access to toilet feature in local transport plan for bus infrastructure and facility . this be the ideal time for I to be talk about this topic ; I apologise to member who have also be in the debate for a while . as Age UK say in January in its delightfully name " lift the lid " report , for old people , those with health condition and many other , the availability of public toilet can determine whether they feel able to leave their home . it be basic equality of mobility . my Green colleague on the London Assembly be famously very persuasive . work with group include Age UK , they have gain consensus and win investment , and target have be set for toilet access on the tube network — toilet should be no more than 20 minute of travel time away . the Minister talk about create more accessible stop place . that kind of standard access to essential toilet facility on bus route would enable mobility , and it be so achievable . I hope that Ministers will listen and take these proposal forward in their work . I call the shadow Minister . we have have an interesting debate with around 25 to 30 speaker , and some theme have develop from it . a number of speaker mention disability access , particularly issue with float and share - border bus stop for those who be visually impaired or blind . other speech focus on concessionary travel during rush hour and concessionary companion pass . we also hear a number of description of local bus need in right hon . and hon . member ' constituency , particularly focus on rural need . I want to pick out two or three speech for commendation , start with that of my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) , who speak in support of amendment 23 and new clause 29 and 34 . he highlight a concern failure by his Liberal Democrat county council , so if we want to improve bus service , we know where the Liberal Democrats can start . I commend the contribution from my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , who put his name to and champion new clause 47 , which aim for companion pass to form part of the concessionary travel scheme . I would like to mention the contribution from the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) , because he have a tiny pop at the Conservatives , particularly about new clause 10 relate to antisocial behaviour . I think this require a bit of explanation . it be right of he to highlight that the position of his Majesty ' s opposition have change on this measure , and I will explain why . when we discuss new clause 10 in Committee , the hon . Member will recall — if he do not , he can always refer to Hansard — that I be very sympathetic to the objective of his new clause , but , as I now accept , I take a rather narrow objection to its drafting . the new clause add a description to a non - exhaustive list and be therefore technically not require , because the definition be already employ . the definition be one of nuisance , and audible antisocial behaviour be , by definition , nuisance . it be the lawyer in I come out , and I be be slightly otiose . do the shadow Minister accept that I make the point to he in Committee that he be be too narrowly lawyerly ? do he also accept that when I raise the issue at Prime Minister ' s question , the conservative Benches jeered almost unanimously on this point ? I stand correct , in the sense that I have listen to the hon . member and , on reflection , I accept that I be make perhaps too legalistic a point . if by add " sustained antisocial auditory disturbance " to the definition of nuisance we can make what be an imply power an express one , I be happy to support that . as for the jeering , perhaps my hon . friend be cheer — who know ? rise — on that point , I will give way . the shadow Minister mention how the conservative party come to change its view on my hon . friend ' s amendment on audible noise . one thing that have not come up during the debate be his party ' s position on new clause 2 , which would extend concessionary bus pass . give that the argument be an economic one and his party want to see disabled people get to work , will he support that tonight ? I be grateful , although I be not sure whether that be an intervention on jeer or cheering and the difference between they . I will go so far as to say that I be not in a position to make economic spending commitment at the Dispatch Box . although we be supportive of the principle , that be why we will not vote for something that write a blank cheque for the future , because at least the Conservatives be try to be economically responsible . without amendment , the Bill be a miss opportunity in relation to bus stop design and disability access . it be a miss opportunity in relation to antisocial behaviour on bus and bring that in line with the protection already enjoy by rail passenger . it be also a miss opportunity not to focus on passenger as the primary object of all action undertake as a result of the Bill , particularly in relation to rural area . the Bill be not just a miss opportunity ; it be also , in its current drafting , damage for the future prospect of the provision of bus service , because it risk expose local transport authority to potential bankruptcy without support from the Secretary of State . that is , in the first instance , in term of oversight of plan for franchising — particularly for small local transport authority — and give they the all - clear . secondly , if franchise system be set up and then they fail to provide over a prolonged period , the Secretary of State must surely be able to step in and provide those service — if we be interested in the experience of passenger as oppose to the organisation . I have raise those two issue consistently throughout Committee and early on today . they be significant , genuine concern that prevent the Opposition from support the Bill in its current form . I thank the shadow Minister for the way in which he be approach the debate . local authority all over England be let contract every single day , and all manner of contract could go wrong . what be peculiar about this power that mean there be a risk of bankruptcy ? I be sorry that the hon . Member be not in his place throughout the course of the debate , as he would have hear that a franchise be not a normal contract . under an enhanced partnership or a standard operating contract , that be exactly so : a contract be let and the commercial risk lie with the provider . the challenge with franchising be that the commercial risk be transfer 100 % to the taxpayer , because the local transport authority be no long let a commercial contract ; it be buy in service for a price , with the commercial risk lie with the taxpayer . that be the crucial difference . I be glad that the hon . member put his finger on that , because I be as worried as he be about it . finally , I will mention the comment of the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) . we do not agree on many issue , but I do agree with she on this . she say that a lot of good amendment be table by opposition party — certainly three party ; there be sadly none from Reform , which would not know a transport policy if one get up and slap it in the face . the hon . Lady come up with some good idea , and even the Liberal Democrats come up with something or other . as for the Conservatives , we come up with good idea after good idea , yet until now they have all be reject by the Government . I look forward to the Minister ' s response and to his concession on all those good idea . with the leave of the House , I thank those who have contribute to today ' s debate . I have carefully listen to the point raise . the breadth of interest show that although we may not agree on the approach , we share an ambition to improve bus for all passenger . as I have mention throughout the passage of the Bill , this Government strongly believe that local leader be well place to make decision for their local community ; they know and understand their area ' specific need and have a direct relationship with their community . we do not want to increase the number of burden on they . we must trust the local area that we be empower to take the right decision for local people . even though I recognise the importance of ensure that there be full accountability , there be a large number of amendment that do not align with that core principle and that would actually increase the burden on local transport authority . amendment have also be propose today that would take away key funding decision from local area , require they to fund specific part of the bus service in their area without consider the possible negative consequence that will undoubtedly arise for other . as I have mention , this Government seek to provide great flexibility in how a local area use its bus grant . local leader be well place to make decision for their community and we must trust they to do that . I will respond to several point raise by the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) . on the Bee Network in Greater Manchester , despite what the conservative party claim , franchising be deliver on time and on budget there , and that be despite the overly complex process that they have to go through because of the previous Government ' s Bus Services Act 2017 . we be correct the mistake of that legislation , cut red tape and make the process more efficient . I hope that the Minister be not mislead the House inadvertently . although he be right that it be deliver on time and on budget — it be about £ 156 million — it be argue that the subsequent year of operation have a deficit of about £ 236 million . even though it may have be deliver on time and on budget , it have be in a terrible deficit ever since and be on strike now . I be afraid that we have be around this roundabout quite a few time . I neither recognise nor agree with those figure . we would have think that the Conservatives , as the party that give Greater Manchester the power to franchise bus , would be more supportive of one of the few positive thing that they do in government . if the Conservative party think it be so important , why do it not do something about it while in office ? I also remind the shadow Transport Secretary , the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) , that he be literally the bus Minister . let we not forget that it be a Conservative Government of the 1980 who deregulate bus outside London , which lead to service be cut , fare go up and patronage go down . this Labour Government be reverse decade of decline in bus service . the Minister should see how committed we be in office , because I give more than a billion pound to Manchester for that scheme and for set it up . indeed , the National Audit Office recently praise our £ 2 bus fare scheme , say it " achieve its aim to make bus journey more affordable for low - income household and to increase bus usage . " I would not stand there so proud of oversee 300 , 000 mile few travel by bus under the conservative party . move to the matter of concessionary travel , let I begin by recognise the strength of support for new clause 2 in the party of the hon . member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) . although the intention of that amendment and other on concessionary travel be understandable , the ENCTS cost around £ 700 million annually , so any extension of statutory entitlement must be carefully consider to ensure financial sustainability . have receive a good outcome from the bus funding in this spending round , we will shortly make a multi - year allocation to local authority to support bus service locally . the multi - year nature of these allocation will enable local authority to plan their bus service with great certainty and negotiate the good value provision from bus operator . local authority already have the power to offer additional concession beyond the statutory scheme fund locally . for example , in the year end March 2025 , 66 % of travel concession authority offer concessionary travel to companion of disabled people . I would also note that a review of the enct be conduct under the previous Government in 2024 , include consideration of travel time , and we be currently review this for next step . on the matter of travel for police officer , many operator already offer free travel to police officer . we be discuss with the industry how we can build on that offer and increase awareness , give the importance of safety on bus . this work be be lead by the Confederation of Passenger Transport , and I would be more than happy to meet the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) to discuss that far . it be good news that 66 % of local authority recognise the importance of companion bus pass for those disabled people who can not otherwise use a bus , but give the lack of logic of give somebody a pass that they can not use , be this not one of those case that ought to be take away from discretion and simply add to statute as a matter of common sense ? we believe in pass the power and the funding down to local area to make these decision . a multi - year funding settlement have be reach and detail of that will be provide to local authority in due course . they already have the power and they will have the funding and the ability to do just that . I thank the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay and the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham for table amendment 58 . the Bill seek to remove the exist requirement for local transport authority that be not mayoral combined authority or mayoral combine county authority to gain the Secretary of State ' s consent to start the franchising process . this be a purely administrative step and have no effect . it occur before a franchising assessment have be produce , so the Secretary of State have no evidence at all on whether to support or block a move towards franchising . the Bill ' s purpose be to help streamline and simplify bus franchising and , in turn , open up the option of bus franchising to all local transport authority . clause 1 be consistent with that aim . it put all local transport authority on a level playing field and will speed up the process for those authority pursue bus franchising . for this reason , I would ask that the amendment be withdraw . I will now address amendment 10 , table by the hon . member for Wimbledon and for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) , and amendment 59 from the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay and the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham together . I be aware of the recent campaign by the hon . member for Wimbledon regard noise nuisance on the bus network , and I can confirm that the Government be commit to tackle antisocial behaviour on bus , include headphone dodge . in Committee , I outline the exist regulation in place , which set out the behaviour expect of driver and passenger travel on bus , so I will not repeat they here . far to those exist power , clause 28 of the Bill provide scope to tackle a broad range of antisocial behaviour , and that could include make byelaw to tackle disruptive form of behaviour . of course , Conservatives Members would know this if they have bother to read the Bill , but they obviously have not notice this when they be talk to the press about headphone dodge . as such , these amendment be not necessary and I would ask right hon . and hon . member not to press they . I move next to the issue of fare cap . the previous Government leave no funding to maintain any form of cap beyond 2024 . we step in with a £ 3 cap to avoid a cliff edge and to ensure that fare remain affordable . the fare cap capture around one fifth of bus fare . this reflect passenger ' use of other form of ticketing , such as a weekly season ticket . as a result of the recent spending review , funding have be secure so that authority can provide target intervention if they so choose . school - only service be fully consider when design the £ 3 fare cap scheme , and it be determined that they should not be include . on amendment 23 , the Bill introduce socially necessary local service as a measure . the £ 2 fare cap end in December 2024 prior to this measure come into force . the expectation be that it will take some time for local transport authority to identify socially necessary local service in their area . an evaluation of the £ 2 fare cap have already be publish by the Department for Transport . it look at the first 10 month of the previous fare cap . evidence suggest that the scheme deliver low value for money . the Minister make an interesting point early about allow local transport authority and mayor to make decision when it come to bus . why do he think that a national mandatory bus fare cap should apply but not a national mandate allow access for disability pass ? why be it that some decision should be take locally and other nationally , and how do he reconcile those difference ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . the national fare cap have be successful . we continue to expand it to ensure that it be affordable across the board . I hear what he say , but I go back to my point : we be give local area the power to do exactly what he be talk about . we be undertake an evaluation of the £ 3 bus fare cap . the outcome will be know in the come year . I hope hon . member will withdraw the amendment . do the Minister agree that the £ 3 fare cap be an essential lifeline for people take the bus from Burnley to blackburn hospital , which be a service that I manage to secure through work with local transit company and Lancashire county council ? I completely agree , and unlike the Conservatives , we actually get it fund . I thank hon . member for the new clause and amendment on the provision of socially necessary service . clause 14 require area with enhance partnership scheme to specify a process that will apply when a local transport authority want to change or cancel a socially necessary local service . in franchising area , exist legislation and measure contain in the Bill set out a detailed procedure govern change to a franchising scheme . that include change to service specify in a scheme . careful consideration have be give to the Bill ' s measure , ensure that there be an appropriate balance between consultation and burden be place on local transport authority . the consultation requirement propose by new clause 32 would be duplicative . on amendment 2 , when the Bill be debate in the other place , my noble Friend the Minister for Rail make a statement to the House to officially confirm that medical and educational establishment come within the definition of essential good and service . my Department be also produce bespoke guidance for lta , which will emphasise that point . the desire effect of amendment 5 be already sufficiently cover by the Transport Act 2000 . on amendment 6 , follow the spending review settlement , lta will be allocate a significant amount of support through the bus fund to decide where they can invest in their service . my Department have commit to ensure that funding be fairly allocate . the amendment run contrary to the Government ' s aim . amendment 7 be contrary to the Government ' s view that local leader be well place to make decision on how they spend their funding . restrict the range of choice for how a local authority do that would therefore go against the spirit of the Bill . on amendment 8 , the Department already publish bus datum through the bus open datum service . that provide timetable , bus location and fare datum for local bus service across England . the Department also publish bus statistic through gov . uk . the majority of the statistic be update annually , with information on bus fare make available quarterly . provide further information directly to Parliament be therefore not necessary . amendment 60 would create practical challenge and may not provide the benefit the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) be seek . the need of community evolve over time . service that previously run may have be integrate into other bus network through change intend to make the bus route well reflect current need . I also note that the amendment do not work because an operator can not amend or cancel an already cancel service . for the reason I have outline , I ask hon . member to withdraw those amendment . amendment 14 , table by the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) , with the support of the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion and for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) , would include training on domestic abuse , as define in the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , in the mandatory training for bus staff on crime and antisocial behaviour . the hon . member for Wimbledon table the same amendment in Committee . in Committee , I say that clause 34 capture domestic abuse because it be already a criminal offence . however , I must clarify that there be no specific criminal offence of " domestic abuse " . under exist legislation , if someone commit a criminal offence and that behaviour also satisfy the definition of domestic abuse under section 1 of the 2021 Act , it be treat as an aggravating factor in the commission of the underlie offence , and that can also be consider during sentencing . the definition of " abusive behaviour " in the 2021 Act include physical or sexual abuse , violent or threaten behaviour , control or coercive behaviour , economic abuse , and psychological , emotional and other abuse . the measure in the Bill already account for abusive behaviour that be also criminal offence . however , that be unlikely to be the case for part of the definition from the 2021 Act — namely economic abuse , or psychological and emotional abuse , which may not be criminal offence . those abusive behaviour be less likely to be apparent , and I do not consider it reasonable to expect bus staff to be able to identify instance of such behaviour in the course of their duty . should an incident escalate to a criminal offence that would cause a victim or potential victim to fear for their personal safety , it would be cover under the Bill . for those reason , I ask the hon . member for Wimbledon to withdraw amendment 14 . on minimum service level , I thank the hon . member for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) and my hon . friend the Member for Heywood and Middleton North ( Mrs Blundell ) for table new clause 22 and 45 respectively , and those who sponsor the new clause . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) — I always look forward to her reminder about Sunday service in Shrewsbury , and hope that those day be number give the Bill ' s progress . the Bill will empower local area across the country , include by give they the tool to decide where to run service and their frequency . the Government expect local transport authority to consider the transport need of everyone in their area , include those in more rural part , as set out in the Transport Act 2000 . I clarify for the hon . member for North East Hertfordshire that section 108 of that Act require an LTA to develop policy that meet the transport need of person live , work , visit or travel in the authority area . if an area choose to franchise its bus service , it must consider lot of factor to determine the right level of service need to support its community . that level be likely to be different in different area . similarly , when an LTA consider an enhanced partnership , a lot of work be undertake to understand the service level that the local area require , and it will then work with operator to investigate how good to proceed . [ interruption . ] I believe that I be be hasten on . [ hon . member : " More ! ] I have never be so popular . finally , let I address the amendment on zero emission bus . in develop the Bill , we have take into account the need to provide the industry with sufficient notice before the measure come into effect , and with reassurance that it will not happen suddenly . we have also consider the impact on bus manufacturer . a significantly early date could impact on bus operator and passenger . the cost of decarbonise soon could lead to reduce service , increase fare and an increase in car use . with that , I bring my remark to an end . I thank member for their contribution . question put and agree to . new clause 38 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 2 - extend eligibility for disabled bus pass " the Secretary of State must remove the time restriction on the use of concessionary travel pass for disabled people within the English National Concessionary Travel Scheme . " — ( Tom Gordon . ) this new clause would require the Secretary of State to remove time restriction on the use of disabled concessionary travel pass . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . the result of the Division be as follow : the Ayes be 69 , the Noes be 400 . Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Pippa Heylings Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler Julian Lewis James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Brian Mathew Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Layla Moran Helen Morgan Susan Murray Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Joshua Reynolds Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young will Forster Charlie Maynard Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Jade Botterill Stephen Morgan the House divide : Ayes 69 , Noes 300 . question accordingly negative . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 2 June ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . clause 1 - franchising scheme : general Amendment propose : 58 , page 1 , line 7 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) . — ( Jerome Mayhew . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Jerome Mayhew Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers John Whittingdale Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Ashley Fox Gregory Stafford Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Wera Hobhouse Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Vikki Slade John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Jamie Stone Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Matt Western Helen Whately Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Jade Botterill Stephen Morgan the House divide : Ayes 92 , Noes 364 . question accordingly negative . clause 3 - Specification of service Amendment make : 31 , page 2 , line 27 , leave out " relation to " . — ( Simon Lightwood . ) clause 11 - Variation of scheme Amendments make : 32 , page 7 , line 25 , leave out " relation to " . amendment 33 , page 7 , line 31 , leave out " relation to " . — ( Simon Lightwood . ) this amendment remove word that be unnecessary . clause 14 - socially necessary local service Amendment propose : 23 , page 11 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must conduct an assessment of the impact of end the £ 2 bus fare cap on passenger ' ability to access socially necessary local service identify in accordance with section 138A of the Transport Act 2000 . " — ( Jerome Mayhew . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans will Forster Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Paul Holmes Gregory Stafford Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Jade Botterill Stephen Morgan the House divide : Ayes 158 , Noes 297 . question accordingly negative . clause 24 - information provide on registration of local service Amendments make : 35 , page 20 , leave out line 20 to 29 . this amendment and Amendments 36 to 45 remove provision that be no long need because of the general data protection override in section 183a of the Data Protection Act 2018 , which be insert by section 106 ( 2 ) of the Data ( Use and Access ) Act 2025 . amendment 36 , page 20 , line 42 , leave out paragraph ( c ) and ( d ) . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 35 . amendment 37 , page 21 , line 18 , leave out subsection ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) . — ( Simon Lightwood . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 35 . clause 25 - information about local service Amendment make : 38 , page 22 , line 17 , leave out subsection ( 6 ) . — ( Simon Lightwood . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 35 . clause 28 - local transport authority byelaw Amendment propose : 10 , page 25 , line 12 , after " nuisance " insert " , include sustained anti - social auditory disturbance " . — ( Mr Kohler . ) this amendment would allow local transport authority to prohibit disruptive anti - social form of noise such as from telephone through byelaw . question put , that the amendment be make . Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young will Forster Charlie Maynard Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Stephen Morgan Jade Botterill the House divide : Ayes 153 , Noes 300 . question accordingly negative . amendment make : 39 , page 28 , leave out line 33 to 36 . amendment 40 , page 29 , leave out line 19 to 21 . — ( Simon Lightwood . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 35 . clause 29 - tfl byelaw Amendments make : 41 , page 31 , leave out line 31 to 34 . amendment 42 , page 32 , leave out line 14 to 16 . — ( Simon Lightwood . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 35 . clause 34 - training about crime and anti - social behaviour Amendment make : 43 , page 37 , leave out line 31 to 40 . — ( Simon Lightwood . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 35 . clause 36 - training about disability : further provision Amendments make : 44 , page 39 , line 19 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) . amendment 45 , page 39 , line 40 , leave out paragraph ( a ) . — ( Simon Lightwood . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 35 . clause 39 - Extent Amendment make : 46 , page 42 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) section ( Use of zero - emission vehicle for local service in Scotland ) extend to Scotland only . " — ( Simon Lightwood . ) this amendment be consequential on NC38 . clause 40 - commencement and transitional provision Amendments make : 47 , page 43 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) section ( Use of zero - emission vehicle for local service in Scotland ) come into force — ( a ) for the purpose of make regulation , on the day on which this Act be pass ; ( b ) for remain purpose , on such day as the Scottish Ministers may by regulation appoint . " . this amendment be consequential on NC38 . Amendment 48 , page 43 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) the Scottish Ministers may by regulation make transitional or save provision in connection with the come into force of section ( Use of zero - emission vehicle for local service in Scotland ) . " . this amendment be consequential on NC38 . Amendment 49 , page 43 , line 16 , at end insert " other " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 48 . Amendment 50 , page 43 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( 6 ) for regulation make by the Scottish Ministers under subsection ( 3A ) ( b ) or ( 4A ) , see section 27 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2010 ( asp 10 ) ( scottish statutory instrument ) . " — ( Simon Lightwood . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 48 and NC38 . schedule - Procedure for vary franchising scheme Amendments make : 34 , page 44 , line 11 , leave out " relation to " . this amendment remove word that be unnecessary . amendment 51 , page 49 , line 1 , leave out " relation to " . this amendment remove word that be unnecessary . amendment 52 , page 51 , line 8 , leave out " relation to " . this amendment remove word that be unnecessary . amendment 53 , page 51 , line 9 , at end insert — " ( zi ) a variation of additional facility identify under section 123a ( 3 ) ( d ) in the scheme ; ( zii ) a variation of the plan for consultation include in the scheme under section 123a ( 9 ) ; " . this amendment provide for variation of additional facility identify in a franchising scheme and of plan for consultation include in the scheme to be cover by the variation procedure in Part 3 of new Schedule 9a to the Transport Act 2000 . amendment 54 , page 51 , line 11 , leave out " relation to " . this amendment remove word that be unnecessary . Amendment 55 , page 51 , line 13 , leave out " relation to " . this amendment remove word that be unnecessary . amendment 56 , page 51 , line 15 , leave out " relation to " . this amendment remove word that be unnecessary . amendment 57 , page 51 , line 21 , leave out " 12 ( b ) ( i ) , " and insert " 12 ( b ) ( zii ) , ( i ) , " . — ( Simon Lightwood . ) this amendment provide for consultation with the Welsh Ministers , local authority , relevant organisation and the Passengers ' Council in the case of a variation of plan for consultation include in a franchising scheme . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wish to report an error in the announcement of the Division result for the first vote this evening , which be on new clause 2 . I can confirm that the correct number be 69 for the Ayes and 300 for the Noes . I thank the Teller for that point of order and for correct the record . I hereby direct the Clerks to correct the number and confirm that the Ayes be 69 and the Noes be 300 . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . this government believe that reliable , affordable and accessible transport be not simply a luxury to be enjoy by some , but that it should be everyone ' s right to access essential service , travel to work or school , fulfil aspiration and expand horizon . today we take a step close to that vision , because after 14 year of fail deregulation , see service cut , route axe and fare rise , we be finally take our lifeline bus service off of life support . this vital legislation usher in the big change to our bus in a generation . it mean improve service for passenger and protection for socially necessary route . green bus will be roll out fast . accessibility and safety standard will be raise across the board , and bus will be integrate across local transport so that it be easy and simple to get around . ultimately , this Bill be about where power lie . it transfer control away from private interest and towards the public good , and away from central Government and towards the local leader who know their area well . they and they alone will choose how good to meet local transport need , be it through franchising , enhance partnership or locally own bus company . my message to the public be simple : bus will get well . I thank hon . member for the scrutiny and support they have provide throughout the Bill ' s passage . I specifically recognise Opposition Members include the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) and the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) for hold the Government to account and for their consider questioning . it have be a respectful and constructive process , which I must say have be refreshing . many of the measure in the Bill build on the national bus strategy , which I know the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) , play a role in implement , particularly in Greater Manchester . I also thank the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , for his excellent work and dedication in steer the Bill through the House . I know that the genesis of the Bill stretch back a long time , so I also acknowledge the passion and foresight of my predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , in make the case for the Bill and her advocacy for a well bus network for all . finally , Madam Deputy Speaker , I be grateful to all the parliamentary staff , include the Clerks and Chairs , as well as to my official , who have work at pace to help deliver this landmark legislation . bus connect we to the thing that matter most , yet for too long they have be a symbol of decline . that change now . after commit substantial funding for bus service , we be now get on with fundamental reform , fix the fault of the industry , transfer power to the local level and put passenger and local community first . change be come to our bus . I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . what bus passenger really want be reliable , affordable and cheap bus travel on a grow network . that be what be guarantee under the last Conservative Government ' s £ 2 fare cap . it be a commitment in our manifesto , and one that work . [ interruption . ] opposition Members may jeer , but the National Audit Office say — they might want to listen — in praise of the dft that the " DFT ' s £ 2 bus fare cap achieve its aim to make bus journey more affordable for low - income household and to increase bus usage " . that be a policy abandon by Labour but stand up for by the Conservatives . this Labour Government scrap it , and they keep on pretend that a 50 % increase to £ 3 be actually beneficial to taxpayer . there be zero indication of how the Bill will improve passenger number or ensure rural coverage . indeed , the Bill create an even more fragmented and inconsistent service across the country . labour have scrap a national fare cap and fail to replace it properly , and now it expect local council to pick up the bill without any extra funding . the last Conservative Government deliver real investment for passenger , back bus service and improvement in the west midland , and Greater Manchester with £ 1 billion . I be there with Mayor Burnham , and anyone would think it be all down to he . I be sure minister be find deal with Andy as interesting as I do . we also do so in West Yorkshire , deliver bus service improvement plan , and work with local authority to get real result . the Bill be the opposite of that . it will drown council in process , drive up cost and threaten rural connectivity while ignore what passenger really need . without significant subsidy , council will naturally prioritise city and town over village , leave our rural community even far behind . just as we have see in our court and our prison , the Government risk create yet another two - tier system — this time for bus — where city region be support and everyone else be simply forget . how else to explain force operator towards zero emission bus registration without any plan to help make that transition for they ? after hammer rural community with attack on family farm , the Government will do exactly the same all over again with reduce service because they be not provide extra funding . to make matter bad , they be undermine the very infrastructure that bus rely on by cut road fund in road investment strategy 3 by 13 % in real term and delay or cancel critical project . the Government can not promise well bus service while cut the very road that they and all other user depend on . in tear up the safeguard around the Secretary of State ' s oversight , Ministers be give council free rein to set up municipal bus company without ministerial sign - off or competitive tendering . let I be absolutely clear : if those company fail , the responsibility lie squarely with the Secretary of State , with taxpayer leave to pick up the Bill . moreover , the Bill have completely ignore the shortage of bus and coach driver across our country . we have call time and again for 18 , 19 and 20 - year - old to be allow to drive bus beyond 50 km a day . fifteen month ago , the consultation end . this Government have have 14 month , yet last week , in answer to a write parliamentary question , they say that they be still consider their response to the consultation . it be a straightforward and common - sense change that would help tackle driver shortage , boost business and tourism , and get more bus back on our road . the Prime Minister and his Chancellor have tell this House repeatedly that they will pursue growth by any mean necessary , yet when an opportunity clearly present itself , as this have do , they do not seem to want to move at all . in this week of hugely damaging and disruptive strike in our nation ' s capital — we will see further bus strike across the country next week — the Government be put ideology ahead of delivery and siding with the union over passenger , with a Bill that fail bus user , fail rural community and fail to guarantee value for taxpayer . that be why we on the conservative Benches will vote against the Bill tonight , and I urge all hon . member to do the same . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . my party support this Bill . after decade of failure , with the deregulation orchestrate by the Tories , this be clearly a move in the right direction . it be not ambitious enough , and I regret deeply your failure to reinstate the £ 2 bus fare cap , the failure to remove the time limit on concessionary travel for disabled people and your failure to address — the hon . Gentleman have repeatedly use the word " you " and " yours " throughout this afternoon ' s proceeding . please can he do well ? and the Government ' s failure to address the awful scourge of headphone dodger . most fundamentally , the Bill will not work unless it be properly fund . at the moment it be not , and the Government can not hide behind localism when it need proper funding . however , we will support the Bill . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Jacob Collier Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Catherine Fookes will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Freddie Van Mierlo John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Sarah Olney Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Al Pinkerton Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Joani Reid Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Vikki Slade John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Jamie Stone Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Stephen Morgan Jade Botterill Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Jerome Mayhew Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Gregory Stafford Paul Holmes the House divide : Ayes 362 , Noes 87 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass , with amendment . business without Debate delegate legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Data Protection that the draft Data Protection Act 2018 ( Qualifying Competent Authorities ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 7 July , be approve . — ( Mark Ferguson . ) question agree to . Petition - Keighley Picture House 7 . 9 pm I rise to present a petition to save Keighley Picture House from closure . when Bradford council announce its intention to sell the cinema building , there be deep concern that the Picture House cinema — a key landmark , open since 1913 — would close with it , as it be advertise for a redevelopment opportunity . resident of Keighley deeply value their cultural heritage . this petition , which I launch to make clear to Bradford council people ' s deep feeling that sell the building be not an option , have receive 5 , 421 signature . lose the Picture House would be another blow to our high street — one that Keighley simply can not afford . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Keighley and Ilkley declare that Keighley Picture House have be part of the town ' s heritage since 1913 and must be save from redevelopment by Bradford Council . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work constructively with Bradford Council and Keighley Town Council to guarantee the future of Keighley Picture House as a cinema and cultural venue for generation to come . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003111 ] Urgent Care Centres : Hillingdon Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Ferguson . ) this Adjournment debate be on the future of the minor injury unit at Mount Vernon hospital . I be particularly grateful to the Minister , who , despite represent a Bristol constituency , have a great deal of knowledge of my area have grow up in it , and to the Secretary of State for a number of conversation that have recognise that the loss of such a unit run contrary to the 10 - year plan set out to the House . it would have a much broad impact , beyond the Hillingdon hospital NHS foundation trust , which be the overarch NHS body for both the Mount Vernon hospital and the Hillingdon hospital site to the south . that be reflect in the fact that more than 20 , 000 people have sign my petition express concern about the loss of the service and call for an opportunity to think again . I place on record my thank to the Members of Parliament in a number of neighbouring constituency who have support I with that petition and support their local resident . the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , who be present , have maintain the long tradition of Hillingdon mp work together on issue that affect their constituency . my neighbour in Harrow East , Hertsmere , South West Hertfordshire , South Buckinghamshire and Harrow West have all express a similar view . they understand the impact that the closure will have on their constituency . I commend the hon . Gentleman , to whom I speak beforehand . the support for what he be propose go much far afield . we recently lose a minor injury unit in a small town to a centralised urgent care A & E unit . like he , I urge caution . I be inform that the merging of A & E and urgent care have affect waiting time , with ill teenager lie in a cold waiting room for upwards of 15 hour . do he agree that it be imperative that the centralisation of service do not leave bad waiting time and standard of care ? that be the very issue that he be refer to . I be grateful to the hon . member . what he describe be similar to the concern outline by my hon . friend the Members for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) and for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) and other across the wide area , as well as by many people who have be in touch with I directly . we know that minor injury unit in general , and the one at Mount Vernon in particular , be value by people for whom a & E be not always the good place to seek treatment . many local school have be in touch to say that if there be an injury during the school day , minor injury unit be the ideal place for a child to get the treatment that they need . for old resident , particularly if they be not in the good of health and perhaps not up to the journey to an A & E department — many of which be under significant pressure — a minor injury unit be the place to be . I know the Secretary of State and Ministers have respond very positively to the plea of a number of member across the House who have ask for the prospect of a minor injury unit opening to serve their constituency as part of the 10 - year plan , so to see one lose that be already provide a good service seem to I a great shame . the Minister will know that the Hillingdon hospital NHS foundation trust have be financially challenge for many year ; indeed , during my day as a non - executive director of the Hillingdon primary care trust , in the day of the last Labour Government , the overspend be significant . it be a challenge that have persist to this day under government of all party , despite numerous initiative to try to resolve it . that be reflect in the poor state of the main hospital building , which be pende a rebuild . I should declare for the record that my wife be a doctor in that building . I know the Minister and the Government have accept the programme of work set in place previously , which be grant planning permission by the local authority and announce under the last government , to provide a new district general hospital at Hillingdon . I be sure the Minister will know , because of her local knowledge , that we need to recognise that Hillingdon serve Heathrow airport as well as the normal district hospital population . the airport have a very large population of transitory people come through it , many of whom be take ill and add to the pressure on A & E . in addition , we have the large number of asylum seeker per capita of any local authority in the country and a significant number of people in immigration detention , pende deportation . this be not just a hospital serve the normal day - to - day need of the population area ; it have particular and unique pressure , and a minor injury unit be a mean of begin to take off some of that pressure for the benefit of local resident . my constituency neighbour perfectly describe the very difficult situation in Hillingdon inherit by the trust leadership and this Government , such as the hotel open under the Conservatives put pressure on the local system . I be pleased that the Government have commit to close hotel across the country and deal with this issue and be review the fair funding of local authority . that be much overdue in Hillingdon . the hon . Gentleman describe the situation in Hillingdon hospital , with the need for a rebuild after 14 year with no funding . again , I be pleased that the Minister , who know Hillingdon very well — I be sure that do not influence the decision — finally provide the almost £ 1 . 4 billion that the hospital need . do the hon . Gentleman agree that those be positive step forward ? I agree that the decision on Mount Vernon hospital be concern , and I have raise those concern with the trust ' s executive leadership myself . do he agree that there have be positive step forward on those long - term issue and that we need to continue to work together to improve neighbourhood healthcare ? I be grateful that my constituency neighbour be here . have he the same degree of history in Hillingdon as myself and the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington , I be sure he would recall that the hotel be set up and open as part of a dispersal programme start under the Labour Government in the mid - 2000s and lead by Andy Burnham , who be now the Mayor of Greater Manchester . I know that have place ongoing pressure on the local area , but the number of people put into that initial accommodation who be now stick locally be very large . I be sure the hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) share my concern that , under the recent announcement about local authority funding , Hillingdon remain broadly the same as it always have be , but I welcome his commitment to carry on the work start under the previous Government for the rebuild of Hillingdon hospital . I know the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington will be very aware that the work undertake on sewerage and electronic for that new build over the last few year have present a significant challenge to resident in access the hospital — I be sure his constituent complain about it as much as mine have do . indeed , the challenge that will come during the rebuilding process of the hospital on what be currently its car park be a further argument for why a minor injury unit be important in this period . it create a bit of additional capacity to help with potentially challenging time at A & E and the difficult logistical challenge of access a hospital whose car park be already constrain and will be the building site for a new hospital . all those be additional reason why a minor injury unit remain important . it be noteworthy in this context that the move away from an open access unit to appointment - only , which take place follow covid , have significantly reduce the footfall at the Mount Vernon unit and have drive up the cost per visit compare with the previous position . this be part of a pattern that we have also see in the Harrow part of my constituency at the Pinn medical centre , where the loss of a walk - in facility have lead to more patient attend the local A & E , to long wait and , ultimately , to increase cost to the NHS , because a & E attendance be more expensive than nurse - lead walk - in service such as that which be available at Mount Vernon . the Minister know all this personally . she know how much value the local community — not just in Hillingdon , not just in Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner , but across north - west London and into neighbour Buckinghamshire and Hertfordshire — place on that service and how often Members of Parliament represent place like Watford and the Harrow constituency have be in touch to share their concern about the delay and challenge face by patient attend A & Es in Watford , Hillingdon or Northwick Park , which be the main destination for alternative treatment . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this Adjournment debate . he have highlight the issue in his constituency , and he be lucky enough that Hillingdon hospital be go to be refurbish . give the delay to the Watford General refurbishment , where spade will not be in the ground until 2032 at the early , do he agree that Mount Vernon be even more critical for the surround area with the capacity that it provide ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , another constituency neighbour , for the support that he have lend to this campaign on behalf of his constituent . in a busy capital city , where there be all kind of challenge arise not just from the airport but from our transport link , the pressure on some of those A & Es be high than the NHS funding formula have traditionally recognise , and service such as minor injury unit have come into be over the year to make sure that that provision be there . I know that my constituency neighbour ' constituent attend Mount Vernon not just to go to the minor injury unit ; it be also home to a cancer centre , a hospice , a private hospital , a general practitioner — a whole variety of NHS and private healthcare service — as well as to research and scanning , and nurse ' accommodation . all those thing be incredibly important to the local community . my ask of the Minister be straightforward . she understand as well as we all do that the NHS be always under financial pressure regardless of which party be in government , and she understand personally how much this unit at Mount Vernon hospital matter to local people across an area that be much wide than that serve solely by the Hillingdon hospital NHS foundation trust . she also understand that the vision of the 10 - year plan put great emphasis on out - of - hospital care . the commitment to the Northwood and Pinner cottage hospital start under the previous Government and now under construction at the site in my constituency be an example of the willingness of both this Government and the previous one to invest in those type of service . it therefore seem perverse to be close down one such service that be already successfully in operation and that be both value and have the potential to far reduce the cost and service pressure on our local NHS . I ask the Minister simply to intervene with the trust and to ask her official to engage with it about the wide impact that the closure will have beyond the Hillingdon hospital trust alone . from the trust ' s perspective , move those staff and that budget on to the main hospital site will improve the look of its bottom line , but in the long term it will increase the cost to the NHS for those patient and reduce the quality of the service that they receive . will she therefore consider encourage the trust to move back to an open access model , as use to operate at the site , which would far reduce the number of A & E visit , which be costly to the NHS and stressful and time - consume for patient ? will she confirm to the House that she note the concern that have be express so profoundly and across party by mp from Hertsmere , Beaconsfield , South West Hertfordshire , East Harrow , and Hayes and Harlington , some of whom have take the time even during a tube strike to be present for this debate to demonstrate the importance that they place on it ? some have say that the more than 20 , 000 local people who sign the petition be express faux outrage . those 20 , 000 people value the service . many of they , include myself , have use it over the year . we know the benefit that it bring . we know that it be in accordance with this Government ' s vision and strategy for the NHS . we know that , use properly , it can reduce cost to the NHS and improve the quality of service , not just for my constituent but for all our constituent . will the Minister please intervene , ask the trust to think again and find a way to secure this value service for the future , for local resident ? I be grateful to the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) for secure this debate . he mention that his wife work in the system , so I pay tribute to she for her service in the local trust . as the hon . Gentleman allude to , I be a Hillingdon girl ; it be where I be bring up . my brother be bear in Hillingdon hospital , some 59 year ago . it be a great pleasure to be there recently with my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) . some year ago , I predict that we might have a Labour MP there , so after be around the area for a long time , I be personally very pleased to see that . the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner tempt I to move into the wide area of what be rightly a to - ing and fro - ing on some of the big pressure in that part of north - west London and into Hertfordshire . I will not go into that , but it be absolutely right that hon . member use this platform to share their campaigning on behalf of their constituent . service change such as these be always hard and they be rarely popular . I have be the Member of Parliament for Bristol South for more than a decade , and before that I be an nhs manager , so I have see many service change and reconfiguration over the year . like the hon . Gentleman , I be also a non - executive director in a past life . all the change that I have see be do through good consultation , with strong clinical leadership and a good clinical case , and involve patient and the public . I strongly believe that patient , public and staff be often ahead of the wide system and sometimes of politician in know the balance of the money , the funding , the good value for taxpayer ' money , clinical outcome and safety . if they be manage well , those conversation and the sort of debate we be have tonight can often yield well result than maintain the status quo or decision make behind closed door . I be familiar with such debate , as like many of we I often find myself stand where the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner be , advocate for my constituent against change that I think be not in their good interest or not clearly communicate . he be right to secure this debate . I agree with every word that the Minister have say about how we get good decision in the interest of local people , but do she share my concern that there have be no public consultation about this decision at all ? there have be very limited engagement even with local resident ' association about the process and , for the staff involve , there have be some — shall we say — degree of ambiguity about what decision have be make at each stage of the process . do she agree that it would be wise at this stage , as a very minimum , to pause , to think again and to undertake that public consultation , so that the NHS manager task with make the decision fully understand the impact on the local community ? I will comment on that later . I understand that there be a meeting on Friday , to which I will allude . in prepare for the debate , I meet representative of the trust , and I be grateful to those in the local NHS for their time in give some further background . the trust be clear that it would be more efficient for urgent care service to be consolidate at the site in Hillingdon , bring forward the urgent care nurse practitioner service at Mount Vernon into the urgent treatment centre at Hillingdon hospital . the rationale for have urgent treatment centre alongside A & E be well establish clinically . the hon . Gentleman reference the 10 - year plan — I be pleased he be such a fan — and the direction of travel . I be pleased to say that the trust also believe that people be well serve by primary care hub , so that more responsive care can be deliver close to where people live . three such hub be be develop in Hillingdon , one of which will be in Ruislip . I be sure that he welcome the announcement this week of the roll - out of the first of the 43 hub , include the one in Hillingdon , which will deliver the neighbourhood health service model . despite some of the heat in the debate , the misquoting of thing that have be say and the unfortunate politicisation of this important local issue , about which there be general agreement among member of all party and in the community , the consensus that I hear be that people want more accessible service , more locally . there be a need for three hub — the system want that — and I be pleased that the Government have announce funding and prioritise Hillingdon . I have also hear that there be a potentially great role for community pharmacy in provide urgent service and care . do the Minister agree that more can be do by primary care provider across the board in Hillingdon and elsewhere ? I agree with my hon . friend that that be the direction of travel that we want to see in all of our constituency across the country . the long - promise rebuild of Hillingdon hospital will be deliver by this Government as part of wave 1 of the new hospital programme . the money be guarantee and construction will start between 2027 and 2028 . we be already help the trust to prepare for when we get spade in the ground , and it be a pleasure to visit the trust recently with my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip . the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner raise the issue of consultation . I understand that there be a meeting with the trust , the integrate care board and the local authority on Friday , and I be sure that he and other hon . member will be part of that . it be entirely proper for a Member of Parliament to raise issue about change in their area — that be part of our democracy and democratic accountability . now that this Government have put the new hospital programme in order , it be also proper for the House to hold we to account on its progress . I will try to attend the meeting on Friday , but the Minister must appreciate that there be an element of scepticism about the future , in particular about what be happen with this unit . it confirm in my mind that if you stand still long enough , thing will come around time and again . in our constituency in Hillingdon , we have go from cottage hospital that provide immediate care for minor injury , as well as have bed , which be close , to be promise Darzi unit , which we never see , to look forward to the hub themselves . on Friday , I want to be able to convince people that there be a comprehensive plan that will be hold to and properly invest in , because people will be very sceptical about the closure of a unit without the confidence that the architecture will be in place to meet the need of our constituent . the petition have garner such a large number of signature because of that concern . I understand what the right hon . Gentleman say . I have see some of those promise make and not deliver over many year . it be important that Members of Parliament be involve and that there be a wide conversation with the ICB and the trust around those change and the development that they make towards deliver the 10 - year plan . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister announce that we would bring together NHS England and the Department for Health and Social Care precisely because we think that democratic accountability for £ 200 billion of taxpayer ' money be important . however , that accountability do not mean micromanage , or intervene in every difficult decision that the ICB make . we expect local NHS organisation to make change and to reconfigure their service as well need by the people they serve . that be in line with the direction outline in the 10 - year plan . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have receive several request to intervene on a number of issue . have look at they thoroughly and assure himself that patient safety and access be guard , he have decide not to intervene in nine reconfiguration . get our NHS back on its foot be a team effort , and we have to trust local NHS leader to deliver . decision that affect the people of Hillingdon should be make in Hillingdon — it be not for someone sit behind a desk in Whitehall to make those decision for they . have say that , I want to assure colleague that that do not mean we will give local leader a blank cheque to do whatever they like . yesterday , we publish a data tool and league table that make NHS performance open and accessible , to inspire improvement and deliver a well nhs for all . those NHS organisation that be do well will be reward with great freedom , such as in how to spend their capital , and those that demonstrate the good financial management will get a great share of capital allocation . we want to move towards a system in which freedom be the norm and central grip be the exception , in order to challenge poor performance . improve service for patient should be reward ; the quid pro quo be that there will be no more reward for failure . undertake the reform we have set out to make as a Government will require a good deal of trust between central Government and local leader , and we will build that trust only by show those local leader that we trust they to get on with the job and make difficult decision where necessary . will the Minister give way ? I be go to pursue this point , if I may . debate about service change and reconfiguration have go on since the birth of our NHS . I understand that they be really important for local people , and I understand the level of discussion about this issue and — as the hon . Gentleman have outline — the wide impact on area such as Watford . it would be easy for this government to make ourselves popular by sack some manager and promise people that service be never go to change , or that they will never close in any part of the country , but we be not elect on a populist platform , and it would not be in patient ' long - term interest not to reform and modernise the system . we be build an NHS that be fit for the future . that be what the 10 - year long - term plan be base on — move service from hospital into the community , from analogue to digital , and from sickness to prevention . we expect local NHS leader to make that happen . they must do so with local clinical leadership in the good interest of the population they serve , and they must do it with the public — we expect open and transparent communication go forward . local politician have an important role in that , which member present in the Chamber have demonstrate ably , and will continue to do so . I would be very happy to maintain contact with the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner . the wide implication of the issue he have raise need to be outline to he , and I commit to write back to he about the consideration that be be give to those wide implication . I note his concern , and I be happy to continue work with he . question put and agree to . House adjourn .