Oral Answers to Questions Women and Equalities the Minister for Women and Equalities be ask — ban Conversion Practices what step she be take to ban conversion practice . what step she be take to ban conversion practice . when she plan to bring forward legislative proposal to ban conversion therapy . let I be clear : conversion practice have no place in today ' s society , and this Government be commit to bring forward trans - inclusive legislation to ban these outdated and abusive act . this be a complex issue that we want to get absolutely right . we be work hard to publish later in this session draft legislation that offer protection from these harmful practice while also preserve individual ' freedom to explore their identity with appropriate support . since the Supreme Court ruling , many trans people have feel discrimination and a loss of their right despite still be protect under the Equality Act 2010 . I be pleased to hear that the Government be bring forward a trans - inclusive conversion therapy ban , but what else will the Minister do to ensure that trans people know they belong in our society and be value ? I can indeed assure my hon . friend that our draft legislation on conversion practice will be trans - inclusive . it be crucial that trans people be safe , include , and protect from harm and discrimination . more widely , this Government be actively work on other manifesto commitment to strengthen service and protection for tran people , include ensure that all trans people receive appropriate and high - quality healthcare , and equalise all strand of hate crime . I recently meet representative of Trans Liberation Bournemouth , who share with I their anxiety about the Supreme Court ruling — a ruling that have cause not only confusion in their otherwise supportive workplace , but distress incident for biological woman who do not conform to traditional gender norm . what assurance can the Minister give my constituent that this Government be commit to ensure that Bournemouth remain an open and welcome place for our LGBT + community ? I will indeed give that assurance . rightly , law be in place to protect trans people from discrimination and harassment — that remain the case . to be clear , I be absolutely committed to deliver on our key manifesto commitment aim at protect LGBT + individual : a full , trans - inclusive ban on conversion practice , and our commitment to equalise all exist strand of hate crime . dignity and respect for everyone run through every sinew of this Government . previous government have promise to bring forward legislation to ban conversion therapy , but it have not happen yet . Eris , one of my constituent in Horsham , tell I that recent headline have create fear and uncertainty within the trans community , increase their sense of isolation . will the Minister show the LGBTQ community that they be not ill or something to be convert , and commit to action within the next 12 month ? as we know , the previous Government repeatedly break their promise to deliver on the issue of conversion practice and allow the debate to become ever more toxic and divided . we be committed to bring forward legislation to ban these abusive practice — that be a key manifesto commitment . we will be publish our draft Bill later in this session , and we want to work with Parliament to ensure that our legislation be robust and do not negatively impact legitimate support for those explore their sexual orientation or gender identity . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . [ interruption . ] oh , sorry — I call Jim Shannon ! how could I forget he ? absolutely right , Mr Speaker . I thank the Minister very much for her answer , but can she outline what support be in place for people of all faith and none to receive counselling that be right and appropriate , help they to find the answer that they all seek ? as I have explain , we be absolutely committed to go forward with a ban on conversion practice , but we want to make sure that when we legislate , that legislation do not inhibit proper , genuine , supportive counselling and guidance as people explore their gender identity or sexual orientation . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as Liberal Democrats , we have be concern about the lack of a draft Bill on conversion practice , so I be relieve to hear what the Minister have say today . however , give the amount of fear and anxiety that there be among the trans community in this country , can she reassure the House that when the Bill come forward , it will be UK - wide to overcome the Scottish Government ' s withdrawal of their proposal ? far , will the Government consider whether we need fresh legislation to deal with all the issue in the Equality Act that have be raise by the Equality and Human Rights Commission ' s interim guidance and the Supreme Court judgment ? there be a real range of question there . we be bring forward legislation that affect England and Wales , but I can assure the hon . member that we be in talk with official in the Scottish Parliament on that very issue . I also assure she that we will be bring this legislation forward very soon , and that there will be a proper opportunity for that pre - legislative scrutiny , which I know she will want to take part in . educational Outcomes for Boys whether she plan to take step with Cabinet colleague to develop a strategy to improve educational outcome for boy . whether she plan to take step with Cabinet colleague to develop a strategy to improve educational outcome for boy . Attainment for boy be , on average , low than for girl . this Government be determined to understand and address the driver behind that . we be focus on drive educational excellence everywhere , for every child in every school , and my school White Paper in the autumn will set out our vision for a system that deliver on excellence for everyone . recent research by the Centre for Social Justice show that at key stage 1 , key stage 2 , gcse , a - level and t - level , boy be underperform girl . we simply can not allow half a generation not to be allow to reach their full potential . as part of her approach , will the Secretary of State consider look at whether boy might need to be teach somewhat differently from girl ? I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s interest in this area and the constructive way in which he be approach an important topic . I , too , have look at the research from the Centre for Social Justice , which provide some important pointer . through the school White Paper , we will consider all the way we can well support boy and young man as one group . we know that the performance of free school meal - eligible white british boy be particularly low ; that be something we inherit from the Conservatives . the logic behind have a Women ' s Minister be the idea that woman present and have different problem in society . by that logic , man and boy do , too ; we know about suicide , and we have just hear about educational attainment . we hear about help - seek opportunity , and I welcome the man ' s health strategy , but be it not time we have a Minister for man and boy to look across Government and deal with education , unemployment , suicide and health , and really get to grip with the problem face young man and boy ? the hon . Gentleman raise some important area of concern , include health outcome , suicide , educational outcome and the need to well support boy , young man and man throughout their life . he will appreciate that ministerial appointment be for the Prime Minister , so I will not get ahead of myself and make any announcement from the Dispatch Box today . as a boy , Billy Boston dream of play rugby union for Wales and for Cardiff , but he be never select because he be black . Wigan and rugby league welcome he with open arm . Rugby league have always be a sport that champion equality ; it be create by working - class man who want to be pay a fair wage , and now Wigan Warriors woman ' s team have win the Challenge cup . will the Secretary of State join I and million across the north in celebrate rugby league as a sport that have always judge people by the content of their character and not their race , class or sex , and in congratulate Billy and his family on his become Sir Billy Boston ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Billy and his family . right across sport , we want to make sure that no one be hold back by outdated stereotype , whether they relate to their sex , their race or their background . this Government be commit to ensure that all young people have access to high - quality sport and other opportunity . as a former a - level teacher , one of my concern — in addition to the disparity between boy and girl in educational outcome — be the disparity in educational choice . physics and math class be dominate by boy , and English literature and psychology class be dominate by girl . those be different subject that develop different skill . do the Secretary of State share my concern about that disparity , and do she have any plan to address it ? my hon . friend bring real expertise , and I listen carefully to what he have to say . we will consider those issue through the school White Paper later this autumn . the curriculum and assessment review be also under way , and it be consider all aspect of how we can make sure that young people have access to a broad and rich curriculum . in addition , we know that poverty be a real barrier for so many child , and that be why I be delighted that this Labour Government be expand free school meal eligibility , lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty . Digital Exclusion what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help reduce digital exclusion for people with communication disability . the digital inclusion action plan , publish in February , set out plan to widen access to device , drive digital upskilling , break down barrier to participation and support people in their own community . the plan highlight disable people as one of five priority group more likely to be digitally exclude , and the focus be therefore on they in particular . a constituent contact I specifically about the digital inclusion action plan , explain that because of his voice disability , spasmodic dysphonia , he struggle to access essential service such as banking , because automated phone system could not understand his voice . there be often no clear way of bypass those system , and alternative like webchat be slow and ineffective . this be a grow issue for many people with communication disability . what step be the Minister take , with Cabinet colleague , to ensure that service remain accessible , and will the issue be address through the action plan ? the hon . Lady have raise some interesting point . the action plan outline five initial action , include the establishment of an ambitious digital inclusion innovation fund . I do not know whether some of those idea could be use to address the concern that the hon . Lady have raise , but we do want to be ambitious in all this . in the " pathway to work " Green Paper , publish a couple of month ago , we talk about assistive tech and the possibility of make it more widely available ; maybe there be solution there that could be take forward . I would be interested to talk to the hon . Lady about what more we might do . three week ago , I have an opportunity to visit Harlow jobcentre , meet the fantastic work coach there , and see the important work that they be do to help people in Harlow get back into employment . Digital inclusion be one of the issue that they raise . do the Minister agree that we need to look at how we can support people to get back to work , give they more face - to - face appointment , and help to provide training and digital skill when they need they ? my hon . friend be right . it be important to ensure that the tech that be available in jobcentre be appropriate for people ' s need . one element of the action plan be the launch this summer of an " IT reuse for good " charter , encourage organisation to set up device donation scheme , because we think that they can play a helpful part as well . Endometriosis what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to provide cross - Government support for woman with endometriosis . give that woman be wait up to 10 year for an endometriosis diagnosis , we be commit to improve diagnosis , treatment and ongoing care for woman with gynaecological condition . that include approve two new pill to treat endometriosis this year , invest £ 5 . 6 million in much - need research , and take action to cut gynaecology waiting list through our elective reform plan . this Government be commit to prioritise woman ' s health as we build an nhs that be fit for the future . I know that my constituent Samantha , who ask I to as this question , will be grateful for the Minister ' s reply . will she also work with colleague across Government to ensure that once the Employment Rights Bill have be pass , the need of those with menstrual health condition , like endometriosis , be reflect properly in guidance and employer support , and that organisation such as Endometriosis UK be engage in the process ? far too many woman , like Samantha , be force to leave work because they do not get the support that they need . that be why we be meet the need of woman with endometriosis in the workplace through a number of measure in the Employment Rights Bill . strengthen statutory sick pay arrangement , make flexible working available to more people , and open up conversation about woman ' s health through employer action plan will benefit all employee manage the condition . we be turn the commitment in the woman ' s health strategy into tangible action . what commitment can the Minister give that the community diagnostic centre programme , which be start under the Conservative Government — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I ' ll start again . what commitment can the Minister give that the community diagnostic centre programme , which be start under the last government , will be use effectively to treat and diagnose not just endometriosis , but all the condition list in the woman ' s health strategy ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware that we be take forward a number of measure as part of the woman ' s health strategy . he will also know that as a result of our pilot on woman ' s health hub , which have be establish in 41 of England ' s 42 integrate care system , we be work to make sure that we be support and tackle woman ' s health , include by shift care out of hospital , reduce waiting list , and continue to engage with local area to use the learning from woman ' s health hub to improve the local delivery of service . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . woman be wait up to 10 year for a diagnosis of endometriosis or adenomyosis . our Women and Equalities Committee report recommend a maximum wait of two year , which be still a long time to live with intense pain and fertility decline , but it would be an improvement . give that reproductive health issue cost the UK economy £ 11 billion a year , the soon condition be treat , the soon woman can get on with their life . do the Minister agree that invest in woman ' s health be essential , and how be she raise the importance of the woman ' s health strategy with her colleague , include the Health Secretary ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that we need a focus on woman ' s health . our priority be turn the commitment in the woman ' s health strategy into tangible action , such as by set out how we will eliminate cervical cancer by 2040 through the new cervical cancer plan . we have take urgent action , through our elective reform plan , to support the nearly 600 , 000 woman who be on gynaecology waiting list . one in 10 woman in Northern Ireland be think to have endometriosis , and the average wait time for diagnosis be an unacceptable nine and a half year . do the Minister agree that there need to be a UK - wide strategy that equip our NHS with endo - experienced surgeon , fertility expert , mental health support and pain specialist in order to aid those woman , who be on the most horrifically painful journey ? I thank the hon . member for raise this issue . she be right : it be unacceptable that woman can wait up to 10 year for an endometriosis diagnosis . the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence ' s update guideline on endometriosis make firm recommendation on referral and investigation , which will help woman receive a diagnosis and effective treatment fast . it be important that we continue to work as closely we can on this issue across the whole UK . Welfare Reforms : impact on disabled People what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the Government ' s propose welfare reform on financial inequality experience by disabled people . the hon . member be right to raise this issue ; the current system do track too many people in financial inequality . we want disabled people to have chance in work , which other have always take for grant . we will invest an additional £ 1 billion a year by the end of the decade in work , health and skill support . I have speak to several disabled constituent who be deeply fearful about the propose cut to the limited capability for work and work - relate activity element of universal credit . research by Sense show that one in four disabled people with complex need could be push into debt if the change go ahead . will the Minister and his colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions review this damaging proposal ? at the moment , there be 200 , 000 people out of work on health and disability ground who would love to be in a job , and who say they could be in a job today if they have the support to make that possible for they . we be determined to provide they with that support . as the Minister know , the personal independence payment be a passport benefit for carer ' s allowance . the Government ' s impact assessment suggest that approximately 150 , 000 family carer will lose out due to the propose change to the eligibility criterion for PIP . what further analysis have the Government do of the financial impact of welfare reform on family carer ? we be consult on the support that will be need over the next few year for perhaps one in 10 of those currently claim PIP . support will be need for those who lose their benefit , and that will include family carer who receive carer ' s allowance at the moment . violence against Women and girl what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl . we be take firm action across Government to deliver our unprecedented ambition to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . that be underpin by a new Government strategy , which be to be publish this summer . last year , we launch new domestic abuse protection order and set out new measure to tackle stalk . through the safe street mission board and the VAWG ministerial group , Ministers across Government regularly meet to discuss and drive progress . it sadden I to see an article in the Glasgow Times about the rise of sex crime at scottish train station . Sexual Abuse Compensation Advice find that there have be a 45 % increase in sex crime at scottish station , with a total of 87 crime report in 2024 . do the Minister agree that woman should be able to use public transport without fear of assault ? will she tell I what her Department be do to tackle such issue ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . she be absolutely right : everyone should feel safe while on public transport . that be why we have develop an ambitious programme to help make the transport network safe for woman and girl . the british Transport police use overt and covert policing technique to target offender who be use the network , promote the reporting of sexual offence , and have commit to tackle violence against woman and girl in their 2025 - to - 27 policing plan , which , with her experience in this area , she may be interested to discuss with they . on Friday , my private Member ' s Bill be due for second Reading . it call for the Government to publish a strategy to tackle interpersonal abuse and violence against man and boy . the strategy would ensure that male survivor of crime consider to be violence against woman and girl , such as rape , sexual assault , domestic abuse , force marriage and honour - base violence , be give dedicated support , and also prevent male survivor from have to be in space that should be for woman . currently , male survivor be to be include in the strategy for woman and girl , due to be publish this summer . can the Minister reassure I , and male survivor in desperate need of support , that the Government will introduce a dedicated strategy for man and boy , and if they will not , why not ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this issue . it do affect woman and girl more , but I take the point that he raise , and it be important that all people get the support that they need . I look forward to look closely at his private Member ' s Bill . I call the shadow Minister . time and again , we Conservative Members ask the Government to hold a national statutory inquiry into the grooming gang scandal . time and again , Government Ministers insist that the five local inquiry would be enough , despite a suspect 50 town have groom gang operate in they , as report by Charlie Peters from GB News . now , after the Casey review and the announcement of the national commission , what reassurance can the Minister give victim that the 50 suspect town will be investigate ? if a town or city where a grooming gang be suspect to operate refuse to have an inquiry , can the Minister compel the commission to investigate ? in other word , do the Government have any accountability whatever ? the shadow Minister may not have listen closely to the statement on Monday , because that be confirm by the Home Secretary . he may want to know that early this year , the Financial Times tell we the reality of what go on inside the previous Government after Alexis Jay ' s report . the FT say that no . 10 urge Home Office Ministers to " do more to ' engage with Alexis ' and draw up a … plan for her recommendation . " one veteran admit that " the report come out at an unfortunate time and be maybe to some extent forget or deprioritise . " " forgotten or deprioritise " — yet now the Conservatives have the cheek to lecture this Government about the action we be take to support and protect victim . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I be proud to be drive our opportunity mission , as part of this Government ' s plan for change , to break the link between background and success . in our spending review , we announce that we be extend free school meal to all child with a parent on universal credit , lift 100 , 000 child out of poverty by the end of the Parliament . that be the difference a Labour Government make . my constituent Theo , who be blind and a Braillist , have not receive a single useable Braille past paper , despite be nearly a year into his a - level , and report that his GCSE paper last year contain so many error that they be nearly impossible to use . will the Minister take immediate action to ensure that exam board fulfil their legal duty under the Equality Act 2010 to provide accessible examination material , and urgently review Ofqual ' s monitoring ? I be concerned to hear of the experience of the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . if he provide I with some information , I can make sure that this be properly investigate . I be shocked to read recently that Ofsted find that 80 % of teenage girl be be put under pressure to provide sexual image of themselves ; they can be ask for these picture multiple time a night . what consideration will there be of social medium in the wide strategy to tackle violence against woman and girl ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question . I share her concern about the issue and its impact on young woman and girl . that be why the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology be bring forward further action to ensure that girl be protect from harm , and why later this year , we will publish update guidance on relationship , sex and health education to tackle all form of misogyny and ensure that young man and woman can thrive in our country . I call the shadow Minister . I point to page 86 of Baroness Casey ' s report , which show a worrying number of live investigation of case in which there be an overlap between child sexual exploitation and criminal exploitation . the report note that a " significant proportion " of case appear to involve suspect who be claim asylum . which Minister be directly responsible for safeguard our community , include those house in asylum hotel ? if the Government manage to close asylum hotel , as they claim they will , and individual move into other accommodation , will any danger transfer from hotel to the wide community be account for ? the hon . Lady will know that the Home Secretary recently make an extensive statement to Parliament , set out the action that this Government will take to address the many failure leave behind by the Conservatives . Baroness Casey outline that there have be a decade of lose time and a failure to deliver justice for victim . this government will take action . we will root out all form of child sexual exploitation , keep child safe from harm , and ensure that perpetrator be finally prosecute . for decade , too many people block their ear and turn their back on town and individual ask for help , as well as on the national call for help . will the Minister confirm that those in their ivory tower in Whitehall can now be compel to give evidence under oath on their action and assumption — include , vitally , senior civil servant , former Crown Prosecution Service employee , and previous director of Public Prosecutions ? as the Home Secretary set out on Monday , anyone find to have be responsible for cover up or hide vile crime of child sexual abuse must and will be prosecute . however , the Conservatives have a decade to act — the lose decade that Baroness Casey talk about — and the recommendation from Alexis Jay sit on a shelf without be act on . this government immediately bring forward the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill to deliver the big upgrade in child protection legislation in a generation — a Bill that the Conservatives oppose . before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , I welcome to the Gallery the Speaker of the Assembly of Representatives of Tajikistan . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 18 June . I have be ask to reply , as my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister have be attend the G7 summit in Canada . in an era of global instability , we be work with our partner to urge de - escalation in the middle east , to put pressure on Russia to agree to a ceasefire , and to deliver security renewal for the british people . the Air India plane crash last week be devastating . our thought and condolence be with everyone affect by this awful incident , and we be work closely with the indian authority to support those in need . nine year ago , we lose our beloved friend and colleague Jo Cox , who be a beacon of positivity and courage . her legacy live on . I must take this opportunity to also remember Sir David Amess , who be much miss by the whole House . this Sunday mark Windrush Day . we celebrate the extraordinary contribution of the Windrush generation and their descendant to our country . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . give the strong consensus across this House on the importance of de - escalation of the deeply worrying conflict between Israel and Iran , do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that this House ' s action must match its word ? will she therefore give a commitment that before any further military support be give to the israeli Government , whether it be the deployment of RAF jet or armed force , her Government will first give mps in this House a free vote on the matter ? the situation in the middle east be fast - move and deeply concern , and there be clear potential for a significant and rapid worsening of the situation . in every step we take , we will always be guide by the safety of british national and the UK national interest . that be why we have deploy jet to the region , so that contingency support be in place for our armed force personnel , and it be why we be ask british national to register their presence . we will keep all advice under review . too many of my constituent be stick in unsuitable housing , and after 14 year of inaction from the Conservatives , local family be be split up because there be not enough affordable home . I welcome this Government ' s plan to turbocharge the delivery of social and affordable housing , include through the new national housing bank . I ask the Deputy Prime Minister to confirm that this Government will finally give my constituent the security that they deserve . my hon . friend be right to talk about the 14 year of failure by the Conservatives . labour be turn the tide on the housing crisis , and I be proud to announce today our commitment to establish a new publicly own national housing bank , back by £ 16 billion of new finance . this include £ 2 . 5 billion in low - interest loan for social housing , to help achieve the big uplift to social and affordable housing in a generation . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I associate myself with the Deputy Prime Minister ' s remark about the tragic air crash in India , and of course about our dear colleague Jo Cox and Sir David Amess . I also join she in call for de - escalation between Israel and Iran , while note that everything possible must be do to stop Iran get a nuclear weapon . yesterday , the Leader of the Opposition and I meet survivor of the rape gang scandal and their family member . Fiona , Teresa , Lucia and Marlon tell we how authority deliberately cover up the systematic rape of young girl , and some boy , by gang of predominantly pakistani - heritage man . they cover it up because they care more about so - call community relation than protect vulnerable girl . that be disgusting . the survivor tell we that they will only have confidence in an inquiry if it be independently lead , have full statutory power , and cover all 50 town affect , include Bradford . they will also only have confidence in it if those who cover this up be prosecute , foreign perpetrator be all deport , survivor be closely involved , and it be set up before the summer recess . can the Deputy Prime Minister give the survivor and their family those assurance ? first , I thank the shadow Home Secretary for his tone , and for put the survivor and victim at the heart of his question . it be absolutely right that we all look at what have happen over the last couple of decade , and at the countless report that we have have , and look to implement they . he be right to talk about the confidence that people must have in the independent inquiry . my right hon . friend the Home Secretary speak about that early this week in relation to Baroness Casey ' s report , which we will take forward at speed . the inquiry will be independent , and it will have statutory power . we will also implement the Jay report , which he will have know about , as the Minister in charge at the time . we will get on with take action . I hope Conservative Members will adopt his tone , so that we can make sure that the whole House put victim first , and that we all work together to get to the bottom of this . it be vital that scandal like this be never again cover up because of the racial background of perpetrator . Baroness Casey ' s report say , to use her word , that people who downplay the ethnic dimension be let victim down , so I have to raise the matter of the language that the Prime Minister use in January , when I be afraid to say he smear campaigner as jump on a " far - right bandwagon " simply for call for the very inquiry that he have now be force to set up . stand up for rape victim be not far - right . will the Deputy Prime Minister apologise for what the Prime Minister say ? the Prime Minister do not just raise issue ; he have act on they . he bring the first prosecution against groom gang , and call for action to address ethnicity issue in 2012 . the right hon . Member will know that the datum that the previous Government collect be inaccurate and not complete . Baroness Casey recognise this , and it be the subject of one of the recommendation that we will take forward . the Prime Minister make those comment specifically about Tory Ministers who sit for year in Government and do absolutely nothing about this scandal . smear campaigner who stand up for rape victim as be " far - right " be completely unacceptable , and the Prime Minister should never have say that . I commend his predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , for the grooming gang taskforce that he set up , which lead to 550 arrest in its first year . Baroness Casey ' s report also say that a significant number of rape gang perpetrator be non - uk national or asylum seeker , many of whom enter the country illegally . we also know that most illegal immigrant cross the channel be young man , contrary to what the Chief Secretary to the Treasury say last week . do the Deputy Prime Minister now accept that the small boat crisis be one of public safety , as well as a border crisis ? this be a very serious issue , and more need to be do . let I update the House . work with our ally , we have carry out a series of major arrest to tackle the smuggling gang behind this vile trade . in the past month , a ringleader who have smuggle almost 4 , 000 migrant have be jail for 25 year . we can go further thank to the law - enforcement agreement we have strike with Germany , Italy , Serbia and the balkan state . that be in stark contrast to the right hon . Gentleman , who be the man at the heart of the Home Office when immigration soar , we lose control of our border , and we spend £ 700 million of taxpayer ' money on persuade just four volunteer to be remove to Rwanda . I take no lecture from he . if she want to find out who have lose control of our border , I suggest that she look to her immediate right , because ever since the Home Secretary scrap the Rwanda deterrent before it even start , illegal immigration across the channel have go up by 30 % . so far , 2025 have be the bad year in history for illegal immigrant cross the channel . that be on her watch ; that be down to her government . the Prime Minister be plan crisis talk with President Macron , and be finally admit that the situation be , in his word , " deteriorate " . the Government ' s laughable plan to smash the gang lie in tatter . will the Deputy Prime Minister at last accept that we need a removal deterrent , so that every single illegal immigrant who arrive on these shore be immediately remove ? will she commit to that — yes or no ? if the Conservatives want to argue that the 40 , 000 arrival since July ' 24 be down to the scrapping of the Rwanda scheme , they need to explain why there be more than 43 , 000 arrival in the same period start in July ' 22 , when the Rwanda agreement be in place . it be absolute rubbish . they lose control of our border ; we be get control of our border . the right hon . Gentleman need to apologise . I do not see how the Deputy Prime Minister have the brass neck to claim that she have the situation under control when the number cross the channel this year be the high in history . she ask about the Rwanda deterrent . she be obviously not listen to what I say early . the Rwanda scheme never start ; indeed , illegal immigrant in Calais — [ interruption . ] order . I want to hear the question , and I be sure our constituent want to hear the question and the answer . the Rwanda scheme never start . illegal immigrant in Calais say before the election how much they want the Prime Minister to get elect because he would help they to get here . when Australia start a similar scheme about 10 year ago , it work within a few month . as a consequence of the Government lose control , they now accommodate in asylum hotel and flat grow number of illegal immigrant , many of whom cross the channel . the Home Office ' s supplier be actively offer above - market deal to landlord to get hold of their property for use by illegal immigrant . in the meantime , hard - press young people here be unable to rent or buy . why do this Government prioritise housing for illegal immigrant above housing for our young people ? again , I gently say to the right hon . member that , under his government ' s watch , immigration increase fourfold , until it reach almost a million in a single year . they also create the backlog — 400 hotel , which we reduce to just over 200 in our first 12 month in government . one million pound a day " spiffe " up the wall because they be so incompetent . we be build the home that they fail to deliver over 14 consecutive year of failure . they should apologise while we get on with the job of rebuild Britain . goodness I , the Deputy Prime Minister have a cheek . housing start in quarter four last year go down — her mission to rebuild Britain be not go very well . she talk about asylum hotel , but she obviously have not look at the most recent number . the number of people in asylum hotel be high in March this year than it be at the time of the election . and she give no answer about the priority be give to illegal immigrant over people already live here . a Zimbabwean paedophile due for deportation be recently allow to stay in the UK because a court find that he might face " some hostility " back in Zimbabwe , which apparently breach his article 3 right . what about the right of child here to be protect from this dangerous paedophile ? who be look out for their right ? not the Government . there be thousand of such case involve foreign criminal . there be a solution : we need to scrap the Human Rights Act for immigration matter so that this sovereign Parliament decide on the law that our court apply . but the Deputy Prime Minister ' s party vote against that . I have a simple question : why do the Government side with foreign criminal and not the british public ? the Conservatives have 14 year of failure on these issue . we have deport 4 , 500 foreign national offender since we come to office , which be more than they do over the same period . I will take no lecture from the Johnny - come - lately who could not do anything when he be in office . last Saturday mark eight year since Grenfell — eight year fight for justice . the Hillsborough family , include Margaret Aspinall from Huyton , have campaign for 36 year — for decade — for the Hillsborough law . can the Deputy Prime Minister tell I whether this Labour Government will bring forward the Hillsborough law without delay ? will they honour the promise make to victim of state cover - up , and will they finally deliver justice for the 97 ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , for the work that she have do with campaigner such as Margaret in their fight for justice , and for mention Grenfell , the eighth anniversary of which be not so long ago . we remain fully committed to bring in a Hillsborough law . the state have fail victim and their family too many time in the past , which be precisely why our focus be now on get the legislation right . I can assure she that measure will be bring forward as soon as we be confident that they will deliver the justice that victim deserve , and we want to do this at pace . I call the deputy leader of the Liberal Democrats . on behalf of my party , may I associate myself with the Deputy Prime Minister ' s remark about the Air India crash ? in a week that we remember the murder of Jo Cox and David Amess , our party ' s thought be with their friend and family and all those in this House who lose their beloved friend . we also remember those who die in the Grenfell tragedy . in 2003 , we Liberal Democrats be incredibly proud to lead the campaign against the Iraq war — a war in which the UK blindly follow the US in a move that be not back by the United Nations . in light of report that President Trump be seriously consider join the war between Israel and Iran , launch a US strike against Iran ' s nuclear facility , can the Deputy Prime Minister confirm that if President Trump do take such action , today ' s Labour Government will not blindly follow the US into war again ? the one thing I will say be that we agree with President Trump that Iran must never have nuclear weapon . but we have be consistent in urge Iran to engage with the diplomatic process and work with the United States and we continue to support that diplomatic approach . I be grateful to the Deputy Prime Minister . we support those effort . today , the Government be set to unveil their plan to cut personal independence payment and carer ' s allowance , a prospect that one of my constituent describe as " terrifying " . liberal Democrat analysis of the Government ' s own datum suggest that 1 . 3 million disabled people be at risk of lose some support . can the Deputy Prime Minister honestly say , hand on heart , that that be the change that 1 million disabled people and their carer be promise ? Labour be the party of work and the party of fairness and social justice . we have announce a plan to get Britain work again , and we be clear on the principle — I want to be clear on that — that those who want to work should be able to work and those who can never work should be protect . the current system , which we have inherit , do not support those who need that support and do not allow people opportunity for employment . I have personal experience of it . I know what the hon . Lady be say , and I know how some people be fearful of the change , but this Labour Government have put their value into place and will ensure that people be support into work where they can work , and those who can not will be support . we be the party of the welfare state — we set it up after the second world war — and believe it should be there for people who need it , but we should also help people into work . Mr Deputy Speaker , I welcome the — I apologise , Mr Speaker — there be too many deputy in the place today . I welcome the Government ' s announcement on groom gang . I be sorry for stumble ; I have be floor by the point scoring go on around they — on all side . I wonder whether the Deputy Prime Minister be aware that the victim and survivor of groom gang be be deny compensation by the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority on bizarre technicality , as be all child who have be victim of online abuse . for I , that be a grave injustice . the authority think it be well than a judge and jury . I wonder what the Deputy Prime Minister plan to do . personally , I think it should be abolish . my hon . friend be a long - stand advocate for child protection , and I pay tribute to she campaign on these issue . we share her determination to do what be right for the victim and the survivor . we recognise that no sum of money can ever fully compensate for the horror they have experience . we be commit to fund effort to tackle child sexual abuse in the future and support survivor to rebuild their life — that be why we will make it easy for victim to make personal injury claim through the civil court by remove the three - year time limit — and we be redouble funding for therapeutic support service . this Refugee Week be an opportunity for the House to show solidarity with those flee war , persecution and oppression . compassion and welcome be core british value , but for decade the Home Office have be undermine those value , as my new report " no Way Home " show , by treat migration as a crime rather than make it work for our community and for newcomer . will the Deputy Prime Minister read the report and consider its recommendation to remove migration from the responsibility of the fail Home Office ? I will commit to read the hon . Lady ' s report , because it be important that we take all information on these issue . we inherit an asylum system under exceptional strain , which cost up to £ 9 million a day . we will end the use of hotel through suitable self - sufficient accommodation for asylum seeker , minimise the impact on local community , and we will protect and support asylum seeker while demonstrate value for taxpayer . on 1 July , Warwickshire county council will permanently remove one of Nuneaton ' s two fire engine . its decision , base on dubious datum that do not account for local factor such as high deprivation , do not accurately represent the current risk to resident . the cut will put life in Nuneaton in danger . will the Deputy Prime Minister please look into this matter to confirm that there have be sufficient scrutiny and a thorough risk analysis to ensure safety for the good resident of Nuneaton ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important issue , and I know that the fire Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) — will be happy to discuss it far . I be committed to ensure that fire and rescue service across the country have the resource they need to keep community safe . the deployment of fire engine , though , be decide locally , so this really be a question for Warwickshire county council , which be now lead by Reform . the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) should have a word with his county councillor in Nuneaton and get they to explain why Reform be cut fire service . I remember when the Deputy Prime Minister be a fierce critic of austerity and a proud champion for the disabled , but today her Government be introduce their £ 5 billion disability cut Bill that will push another 250 , 000 people into poverty . do she agree that everyone have the right to oppose such devastating cut ? be it the Prime Minister ' s intention to remove the Whip from any Labour MP who do the right thing and vote against these disability cut ? the hon . member talk about austerity , but I gently say to he that we have give the big amount of increase to Scotland — [ interruption . ] I have cover this point in an early question . we be absolutely committed to end child poverty . we have already introduce free school meal , we be already support family and we have give a living wage rise to million of worker that need it . we be get on with the job of rebuild Britain . the hon . Member have have decade of failure in Scotland , and it deserve well . derbyshire ' s Derwent valley be the home of the industrial revolution and it be also now a UNESCO world heritage site . that community show a victorian sense of purpose that deliver improvement to people ' s everyday life . can my right hon . friend set out how the Government ' s £ 39 billion investment in housing will instil that same drive while maintain the unique character of the east midland ' only UNESCO world heritage site ? I know my hon . friend be a champion for regeneration across his constituency , and he be work hard to get home build in his patch for his constituent . our plan for change will deliver the big boost for investment in social and affordable housing in a generation , and for the first time in recent memory , we will give provider in his constituency a decade of certainty over the capital funding to build ambitious housing project that honour Derbyshire ' s history . the Home Secretary say that we should judge her success in smash the gang by whether the number of channel crossing fall , but under this Government the number be up by more than 30 % . by which date should we judge the Home Secretary , and if she fail , will she be fire ? the conservative continually vote against the measure that we be take to smash the gang . we be get on with the job , work internationally to disrupt the abhorrent work of these smuggler and gang , while the hon . member harp on from the sideline . he should apologise for their record in government , which be abysmal . since become an MP , I have receive thousand of piece of casework from constituent who be stick on social housing waiting list . I recently have an email from a woman with severe mobility issue who be effectively trap in her front room while she wait and wait for suitable social housing . even when a home become available , she will be force to compete with other resident because there simply be not enough affordable option . what will the recent new funding announce by the Government mean for my constituent and other like she who have already wait too long for a decent home ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight that case . it be not an isolated case ; we inherit a really dire situation and there be far too many people that do not have a safe and secure home that meet their need . my right hon . friend the Chancellor have announce record funding of almost double the level provide by the previous Government , who end up hand back the cash for social and affordable home . labour ' s plan for change be renew our country and invest in Britain ' s future . I call the Father of the House . the Government quite rightly give full and unequivocal support to Israel in its bid to end the scourge of Iran ' s nuclear weapon programme forever . will they also work with our ally to try and convince the israeli Government that it be not in the long - term security interest of Israel to carry on with this policy of illegal settlement in the west bank , which be simply lead to radicalisation and desperation throughout the region ? have not the overwhelming majority of palestinian people the right to yearn for peace and security in their own homeland , as the Jews yearn for their homeland for 2 , 000 year ? I thank the Father of the House for his important question . Settler violence and expansion in the west bank be appalling and completely unacceptable . alongside our ally , we have sanction individual responsible for incite this extremist action , but a two - state solution be the only way to bring the peace that the Israelis and the Palestinians deserve . that be only achievable if the hostage be release , aid be surge into Gaza and the ceasefire be restore . we will do everything we can to make that happen . in Scotland , over 10 , 000 child be stick in temporary accommodation , include many in my constituency . too many family face soar rent , long waiting list and dwindle option . it be just one of so many policy failing — we be all lose count and lose patience — as public confidence in the SNP ' s ability to govern collapse . what advice do the Deputy Prime Minister have for the SNP Government as they continue to preside over a chronic failure to invest in the social and affordable housing that Scotland desperately need ? my hon . friend be right . homelessness level be far too high , which have a devastating impact on those affect . under the SNP , 10 , 000 child in Scotland — a record high — shamefully have no fixed home to call their own . our decision have give Scotland a record settlement — the large since devolution . we see in Hamilton how scot be feed up with the SNP ' s excuse . the SNP have be in power for nearly two decade and have nowhere leave to hide from its failure . Diolch , Mr Llefarydd . Welsh farmer be take hit after hit , from Tory trade deal to labour taxis . now , on top of that , bluetongue restriction affect Wales and England will hamper cross - border trade . over 550 farm on the border and key livestock market rely on summer trading . once - in - a - year opportunity like the Royal Welsh Show be crucial , and the disruption will be devastating . will the Deputy Prime Minister commit to work with the Welsh Government on a scheme to compensate the loss ? I gently say to the hon . member that you do not deliver for Wales by vote against an extra £ 1 . 6 billion for public service like Plaid do in the Senedd . we will ensure that we support Wales and Welsh farmer and will continue to do that as a UK Government . in the spending review last week , the Government back Peterborough with support for our new pool and a sport quarter in the city . that commitment have the power to turn year of campaign into a reality , but that be not all : the Government have also recently approve the business case for our new station and have give we new police . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that this be just the start and that place like Peterborough that be forget for too long by the Conservatives be now at the top of this Labour Government ' s agenda ? I thank my hon . friend for his comment . I be flank by the two lady — the Chancellor and the Home Secretary — who have ensure that those thing happen . the Chancellor have guarantee funding to accelerate project like Peterborough ' s new sport quarter , which will include a new olympic - sized swimming pool . I can also confirm today that , subject to the business case approval , we will provide nearly £ 48 million of funding for a new city centre quarter and a refurbish eastern station building . a small family business in my constituency be recently burgle by a prolific offender serve an eight - month suspend sentence . the man be catch , arrest , charge and appear in court , where he be give another eight - month suspend sentence and be release . the business be offer £ 200 in compensation . do the Deputy Prime Minister think that that be justice serve , or be this Government now soft on crime and soft on the cause of crime ? first of all , I be sorry to hear about that . hard - work businesspeople who spend a lot of their time build up a business should expect the full force of the law to protect their property and their interest . also , while I have the opportunity , can I congratulate the hon . member on run Hamble Valley ' s very first pub competition this year ? I hope that I will get an invite . he be absolutely right that we have to have increase police number and ensure that they be responsive to people ' s concern . we be do that ; his Government let people down . Saturday mark eight year since 72 people lose their life in the Grenfell tower fire — eight year without justice . but , finally , there be the prospect of some systemic change follow the public inquiry . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to bar all the cite company from access public contract and their full support to the police investigation to deliver real accountability . can the Deputy Prime Minister also reassure our community that , alongside the Hillsborough law , the Government will consider some independent oversight so that victim from the Post Office to Hillsborough to Grenfell know that inquiry recommendation will actually lead to real change ? the Grenfell fire be a national tragedy , and we must never forget the 72 life that be lose . it be a honour to pay my respect on the eighth anniversary at the weekend . we remain fully committed to introduce the Hillsborough law , include a legal duty of candour for public service and criminal sanction for those who refuse to comply . I know my hon . friend speak with passion and authority on the matter and , have speak to the Grenfell community , I know that they really want to see this happen as quickly as possible . we be explore reform to ensure that we can get to the truth more quickly and deliver the meaningful change that these victim deserve . Bishop Challoner school have be help to educate Bromley pupil for nearly 75 year , but it will close its door in July due to labour ' s decision to impose vat on independent school . give the Deputy Prime Minister ' s well - publicise view on independent school , do she welcome this closure or would she like to apologise to the parent , pupil and staff ? as I have say for a long time , taxpayer in this country should not be subsidise tax break for private school . I welcome all school that give child a great education , but I be also determined to ensure we have qualified teacher in every classroom , for every child , which be something the hon . Gentleman ' s Government fail to do . as a train physics teacher and a former engineering lecturer , may I ask the Deputy Prime Minister what this Government be do to help people improve their math skill after they have leave school ? I come across an awful case the other day : a 61 - year - old man who believe he have count up £ 7 billion of Government spending , when there be really only £ 27 million . what can we do for people like the leader of Reform UK , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , who evidently can not add up ? [ hon . member : " More ! " ] my hon . friend highlight an important fact : reform ' s sum simply do not add up . he will be pleased to know that we be invest £ 136 million in skill bootcamp , and I will be sure to send the detail to the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) . HS2 Reset with permission , Mr Speaker , I shall make a statement on HS2 . as a London councillor over 15 year ago , I remember hear the then Labour Government ' s bold plan for high - speed rail to link our major city , address the capacity need of the future and , in the word of then Prime Minister , Gordon Brown , to join " the high - speed revolution sweep the world . " it be a vision of a confident nation and a clear signal : our great town and city in the midland and the north , with potential that have be untapped at well and ignore at worst , could be place of opportunity and aspiration again . that be the promise of HS2 . but after a decade and a half of Tory timeline plan then delay , route draw up then cancel , budget calculate then blow and promise make then break , we inherit a project that have lose the trust of the public , that create an image of a Britain woefully unable to deliver big infrastructure project and that have be axe from swathe of the country it be originally mean to serve . phase 1 could end up become one of the most expensive railway line in the world , with project cost soar by £ 37 billion under previous conservative Governments , and £ 2 billion of taxpayer ' money be sink into phase 2 work before it be cancel by the previous Government . there be also clear evidence of poor management . despite the 2020 Oakervee review advise that government halt construction contract pende improvement in price and simple engineering , they press ahead regardless . it have be no less than a litany of failure and today I be draw a line in the sand , call time on year of mismanagement , flawed reporting and ineffective oversight . it mean this Government will get the job do between Birmingham and London . we will not reinstate cancel section we can not afford , but we will do the hard but necessary work to rebuild public trust , and we have not waste any time . since July we have appoint new leadership of HS2 Ltd to turn this project around . we have make clear to the new chief executive , Mark Wild , that the priority be build the rest of the railway safely at the low reasonable cost even if this take long . we have start the year - long task of fundamentally reset the project , include commission infrastructure expert James Stewart to lead a review into governance and oversight . as part of that reset , we have reduce financial delegation to HS2 Ltd , place a lid on spiral cost until the reset be complete and we regain confidence , and we have support Mark Wild ' s review of the size and cost of hs2 as an organisation . but today we be go far . I can confirm we have publish the landmark James Stewart review and the Department ' s response . the review , commission in October last year by my predecessor , be a tough , independent look at how the Department for Transport and Government deliver major project . the Government not only welcome the review , but have accept all the recommendation , and my Department be already deliver on these , specifically across five key area . first , on the lack of oversight and scrutiny , quite simply there have be too many dark corner for failure to hide in . the ministerial taskforce set up to provide oversight of HS2 have inconsistent attendance from key Ministers , include the then Transport Secretary and the then Chief Secretary to the Treasury . the Government have re - establish the taskforce with full senior attendance per the review ' s recommendation . a new performance programme and shareholder board will offer much - need oversight and accountability . secondly , the report highlight hs2 could cost the taxpayer million more than plan . we will stop this spiral any far by deliver all the recommendation on cost control . that start with HS2 fundamentally change its approach to estimate cost . it include certainty over funding , which the spending review have give . it also mean HS2 work with supplier so that their contract incentivise save cost for taxpayer ; as far as I be concern , supplier should make a well return the more taxpayer money they save . thirdly , the review identify a deficit in capability and skill , with a fundamental lack of trust between my Department and HS2 Ltd . I be clear that both capability and cultural issue within HS2 must be address . the new chief executive be already strengthen the organisation , include by fill critical gap in area such as commercial expertise , and he will be back by Mike Brown , announce today as the new chair . this be a new era of leadership that the project desperately need , with Mike bring significant experience as a former Transport for London commissioner . Mark and Mike be part of the team , with I , that turn Crossrail into the Elizabeth line ; we have do it before and we will do it again . fourthly , between 2019 and 2023 HS2 Ltd provide initial design for Euston station come in almost £ 2 billion over budget . when ask for a more affordable option , it offer one cost £ 400 million more than the first attempt . the word " affordable " be clearly not part of the HS2 lexicon . the combined cost for those two fail design , which have now be write off , be more than a quarter of a billion pound . what be more , the previous Government announce a Euston ministerial taskforce . unbelievably , the taskforce never meet . this Government recognise Euston ' s huge potential . we have already commit funding to start the tunnelling from Old Oak Common to Euston , and we will set out more detail in our 10 - year infrastructure strategy . we will use James Stewart ' s finding to transform infrastructure delivery across Government . implement real change in how we deliver infrastructure be not just for the Department for Transport . this Government be commit to implement these recommendation and adopt a new approach to deliver infrastructure , as will be set out in our upcoming 10 - year infrastructure strategy . in that spirit , the Prime Minister have also ask the Cabinet Secretary to consider the implication for the civil service and the wide public sector of the issue raise in the report , include whether further action or investigation be warrant . we be waste no time in deliver on this review . I will update Parliament on our progress through my six - monthly report , even if the information be uncomfortable , because for a Government who last week pledge billion in capital investment for new major project , and who believe in the power of transport infrastructure to improve life and deliver on our plan for change , that level of failure can not stand . we will learn the lesson of the past 15 year and restore our reputation for deliver world - class infrastructure project . I have speak about our inheritance and James Stewart ' s review , so let I finally turn to Mark Wild ' s initial assessment , which lay bare the shocking mismanagement of the project under previous government — I will place a copy of his interim finding in the Library . he state , in no uncertain term , that the overall project , with respect to cost , schedule and scope , be unsustainable . base on his advice , I see no route by which train can be run by 2033 as plan . he reveal that cost will continue to increase if not take in hand , far outstrip the budget set by the previous Government , and he can not be certain that all cost pressure have yet be identify . it give I no pleasure to deliver news like this . billion of pound of taxpayer ' money have be waste by constant scope change , ineffective contract and bad management . there be also allegation that part of the supply chain have be defraud taxpayer , and I have be clear that those need to be investigate rapidly and rigorously . if fraud be prove , the consequence will be feel by all involve . I have to be honest : this be an appalling mess , but it be one that we will sort out . we need to set target that we can confidently deliver and that the public can trust , and that will take time , but rest assure that where there be inefficiency , we will root they out ; and where further ministerial intervention be need , I will make they without fear or favour . HS2 will finally start deliver on our watch . year of mismanagement and neglect have turn hs2 into a shadow of that vision put forward 15 year ago , but this Government be elect on a mandate to restore trust to our politic , and that be why we will not shirk away from this challenge and why today we turn the page on infrastructure failure . I can think of no well mission than deliver new economic opportunity , new home , commercial regeneration and an upskilled supply chain , all of which hs2 can still unlock , but no one should underestimate the scale of the reset require . passenger and taxpayer deserve new railway that the country can be proud of . the work to get hs2 back on track be firmly under way under this government , and I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and for update the House on the initial finding of the HS2 review . I also thank she for advance notice and a copy of her statement . on the substance of the Secretary of State ' s statement , I believe there be a broad consensus in this House on the central point that mistake be make in the delivery of hs2 . as she note , cost more than double , the project have be repeatedly delay , and the pandemic completely change travel pattern . it undercut the assumption that guide the original plan and cause construction cost to rise sharply across the world — by up to 40 % in some case — as a result of supply chain shortage as the world emerge from the crisis . it have long be apparent that HS2 be not go accord to plan . in my first two year as a Member of this House , I sit on the Public Accounts Committee , then chair by the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) . in the summer of 2021 , we publish a report on HS2 that raise serious concern in a number of area and contain recommendation for how to improve the project . in 2023 , the previous Government concede that HS2 be not go to plan and make fundamental change to it . the result be the cancellation of the northern leg of HS2 and the creation of the Network North plan . under that plan , £ 36 billion be to be divert from the northern leg of HS2 to a multitude of transport project that would benefit more people in more place and more quickly than the then Government believe the delivery of HS2 could . however , we also recognise that the path we take to reach that point be not perfect — far from it . I will not today pretend that the Network North plan be not a product of mistake we make in the handling of HS2 , because it clearly be . as a country , we must learn from those mistake and we must not repeat they . on that note , and with your permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to express my gratitude to Mark Wild , the chief executive officer of HS2 , for his continue effort to support the delivery of the project . recognise his leadership in rescue the Crossrail project in London , it be the noble Lord Harper — then Secretary of State for Transport — who appoint he to lead hs2 in May 2024 . we be all encourage to see he play a lead role in oversee the correction and completion of the project , because his experience will be invaluable in help to get it back on track . I also welcome the appointment of Mike Brown as the new chairman of HS2 Ltd . like the Secretary of State , I know he from my year in London politic , when he be commissioner of Transport for London . he be a very capable man , and I wish he well in his new role . the Secretary of State have inform the House of her intention to accept 89 recommendation of the independent review into HS2 . I have not yet see a copy of that report , which I believe be be release today . although we will need to study those proposal carefully before confirm our support for they , I can assure the Secretary of State if they offer well value for taxpayer , we will back they . the Secretary of State have also raise very serious concern that taxpayer may have be defraud by subcontractor . I assure she that if that prove to be the case , I will share her anger , and will support whatever action be necessary to get to the bottom of those allegation . I would request that she keep the House inform as the investigation by HS2 and his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs progress . before I close , I would like to press the Secretary of State on a number of matter . in recent week the Government have announce several project that either be fund by Network North or align with its commitment . however , we have yet to see a clear Government commitment to either fully support the Network North plan or scale it back . can the Secretary of State now provide a definitive update on which element will proceed and which will be abandon ? it have be report that official be consider a plan , back by the Mayor of Greater Manchester , to build an " HS2 - lite " track between Birmingham and Crewe . will she confirm whether those report be true ? I will conclude by turn to the planning system more generally . the whole House will recall that HS2 grapple with legal challenge , High Court proceeding and judicial review , all of which add delay and cost . what assessment have the Secretary of State make of the extent to which legal challenge and judicial review delay the delivery of hs2 ? how can future infrastructure project be protect from excessive or politically motivated litigation , and do the Secretary of State believe that sufficient action have be take to prevent some of the more spurious concern about such thing as bat and newts obstruct future vital infrastructure project ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his response , and indeed for the tone with which he make his comment . I be pleased to hear he acknowledge that mistake have be make on hs2 by the previous Government . I think he describe the path as not have be perfect — I would go so far as to say that it have be a shambolic mess . he strike a sombre note in his remark , and I would ask he to consider go far , once he have have the opportunity to read the full James Stewart report , because an apology on the part of the conservative party for the mess in which it leave this infrastructure scheme be undoubtedly warrant . I also thank he for his comment on the action that HS2 be take with regard to allege fraud within the supply chain . I can assure he that I will provide appropriate update to the House on the progress of the HMRC investigation that be now under way . the hon . Gentleman ask I to set out our plan for investment in transport in the midland and the north . the conservative party take the decision to cancel HS2 north of Birmingham , and make wild promise about what it would do with the money it claim it be save . he be kid himself if he think that that money ever exist . in last week ' s spending review , this Government set out £ 15 . 6 billion to be invest in local transport scheme across the country , whether in Birmingham , Liverpool , Manchester , Leeds or Newcastle . the hon . Gentleman ' s approach be a fantasy — he promise the moon on a stick and have absolutely no means to deliver . he ask I to set out the Government ' s plan for far enhance rail connectivity in the midland and the north . I can assure he that further announcement will be make , both as part of the Government ' s 10 - year national infrastructure strategy and beyond that in the week and month ahead . the hon . Gentleman also ask I to opine on the extent to which litigation have cause delay in the delivery of infrastructure project . he will know that , through this Government ' s Planning and Infrastructure Bill , we be tackle this issue by limit the number of judicial review and legal challenge that can be bring . unlike his party , this Government be serious about deliver infrastructure , and about provide the stable leadership that this country need when it come to infrastructure . before come to the Chamber today , I look up the number of Rail Ministers in the Department under his government — it be 18 in 12 year . it be no wonder that project such as HS2 be leave in such a state of disarray . just as this Government have return stability to the nation ' s economy , so will we return common sense and stable leadership to the delivery of the nation ' s infrastructure . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . I also thank the Secretary of State for the decisive action she have take to address the cause of hs2 ' s cost overrun . we look forward to have Mark Wild and the Rail Minister at our Committee very shortly . I actually want to celebrate something that HS2 ' s leadership should be proud of : the work they have do on skill and workforce innovation . they have provide good - practice work that the construction industry and transport project can learn from , and in fact be learn from . however , I urge the Secretary of State to get her Department to learn from country such as France and Spain , which have manage to deliver extensive high - speed rail project to time and at a fraction of the cost of hs2 here in the UK . I thank the Chair of the Transport Committee for her comment . she be right to recognise the excellent work that HS2 have do on skill and the workforce . we have over 300 , 000 people work on this project at the moment , and I think that HS2 have do good work on open up opportunity , whether through apprenticeship for the next generation or through the supply chain . I will heed my hon . friend ' s advice about learn from the speed and ease with which other country deliver infrastructure project . [ Official Report , 23 June 2025 ; Vol . 769 , c . 4wc . ] ( Correction ) I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and for advance sight of it . what we have hear today be clearly a damn indictment of conservative mismanagement . connect our large city with high - speed rail be mean to help boost economic growth and spread opportunity . the original idea — a high - speed rail network connect London to Manchester and Leeds — be clearly the right one , but what we have end up with be year of delay and billion of pound of taxpayer ' money be pour down the drain , with no end in sight . the litany of error that the Secretary of State have outline be truly shocking and show that the Conservatives be comatose at the wheel . a lack of oversight , trust and planning have leave we with a high - speed railway drastically reduce in scale and inflate in price . the shocking allegation of fraud by a subcontractor be emblematic of the Tories ' lack of oversight and interest in properly safeguard the public interest and public money , as we see with the scandal of personal protective equipment procurement during covid . we must now make sure that any money lose to fraud be claw back as soon as possible . may I ask the Secretary of State three thing ? first , can she guarantee that , if any fraud have take place , any money lose will be return to the Government and her Department as soon as possible , and that the police will be provide with the necessary resource to investigate the matter fully ? secondly , the Secretary of State have say that the ministerial taskforce set up to provide oversight on HS2 have inconsistent attendance from the then Transport Secretary and Chief Secretary to the Treasury . do the Secretary of State agree that those right hon . member should apologise for those particularly damn lapse ? thirdly , we share the Secretary of State ' s confidence in Mark Wild and Mike Brown , but can she say when she expect to be able to give the House an accurate assessment of the scheme ' s full cost and of when HS2 will finally be up and run ? the hon . Gentleman raise three fair issue , and I agree with his assessment that the previous Government be not just asleep but comatose at the wheel . he ask whether the alleged fraud in the supply chain will be fully investigate , and whether money will be return to the taxpayer . I can assure he that no stone will be leave unturned in get to the bottom of this matter . he be also right to highlight the question of poor and inconsistent attendance by individual who hold my role , the Rail Minister ' s role and Treasury role . it be imperative that politician who have oversight of these infrastructure scheme stay close to the detail of what be happen , both through their own official and directly with the executive and non - executive leadership of the project . that be certainly what I intend to do . I know the Rail Minister have a monthly meeting with the new chief executive . we have already hold a meeting of the ministerial taskforce , and there be another one due soon . I have have multiple one - to - one conversation with the leadership team at HS2 . the hon . Gentleman ask when I will be in a position to provide a full update on cost and schedule . Mark Wild have tell I that he will require until the end of this year to do that full piece of work . I be not prepared to get ahead of that , because that be how we have get into problem previously . the hon . Gentleman can rest assure that as soon as I have more information , in addition to the six - monthly report that I provide to Parliament , I will come back to this House . this be the late national scandal to arise in our attempt to bring in infrastructure scheme on budget and on time , but the taxpayer be not the only victim of the failure of this project so far ; there be also the people of the north of England . HS2 be originally a scheme intend to help the economy of the north - west and Yorkshire and those community on the way , so there be a complete failure there . what we will be leave with be an extension to the London underground system , and that will not help people in Leeds , Bradford , Manchester , Sheffield and elsewhere . will the Secretary of State consider safeguard the original route so that when we get our infrastructure plan in place , we can build something that this country can be proud of ? I gently say to my hon . friend that the Mayor of the West Midlands might have something to say about his great city be see as the end of an extension to the London underground line . it be completely right that our two great city — Birmingham and London — be connect with high - quality rail service . although this be a difficult day in expose the state of the project , I have no doubt that in time it will be a railway we can be proud of . I also say to my hon . friend that I be aware of forecast capacity constraint between Birmingham and Manchester and in other part of the country . we be invest , through thing such as the trans - Pennine route upgrade , in improve connectivity to other great city in the north of England . we be determined to ensure that everyone , no matter where they live in the country , have an excellent public transport system that they can rely upon . my constituency have be devastate by roughly 26 mile of hs2 , and I have consistently warn this House — during the previous Parliament and this — through the lens of the miserable experience on the ground in Buckinghamshire , about the reason for the cost overrun , poor governance and everything else that the Secretary of State have highlight in her statement today . if she must persist with this wrong project with a new delay , will she give a commitment to my constituent and the rest of the county of Buckinghamshire on how much long they will have to live in misery as part of a building site ? more importantly , will she look urgently at unlock some of the mitigation fund that we be find incredibly hard to access and get spend on the ground ? that would be of some small , tiny comfort to my constituent who be live in misery . it be essential that we proceed as quickly as possible with the remain civil engineering work that will have affect the hon . member ' s constituent to date . if he wish to write to I with detail of the problem he have experience with access mitigation fund , I will raise that for he with the chief executive of HS2 . the Conservatives announce that they be scrap the northern leg of HS2 in a former railway station , sum up their attitude to the railway and send shockwave through the industry , include in Derby , a rail city that will be build the hs2 train . will the Transport Secretary ensure certainty and timeliness go forward , so that the industry can have confidence that we will not see further delay , which have already be so damaging for the supply chain ? my hon . friend be right that certainty be critical for the rail supply chain . it will be a number of month before I be in a position to confirm with any certainty the schedule and estimate final cost . as soon as the new chief executive , Mark Wild , have provide that information to I and my Department , I will be update the House . the Secretary of State know that HS2 run through my constituency , and she will accept that what make my constituent particularly angry about what she have describe be that HS2 have pinch every penny in compensate someone unfortunate enough to find themselves in the path of this railway , yet waste million elsewhere . can she assure we that as part of the reset , line - drawing or page - turn — however she describe it — she will look at how people be compensate when affect by such major infrastructure project ? do she accept that it would be sensible to consider how Parliament could look again at this project , whose budget and timescale have balloon , and decide whether we still think it be a worthwhile use of taxpayer ' money ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman be right to point out that we have some form as a country in seek to gold - plate infrastructure project . the last government talk about this railway be the fast and the good in the world . frankly , I would like this country to do thing well and properly . the point he raise about compensation be one that any Government should keep under review , while bear in mind the need to provide value for money to the taxpayer . I can assure he that I will make sure on any infrastructure project I oversee in this role that the House be appropriately update and that we proceed with transparency on the cost and benefit of the scheme . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and the candidness with which she have deliver it . the village I represent in north Buckinghamshire , be they Turweston , Westbury , Quainton or North Marston — I know the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) will be familiar with those community — have for too long face chaos and disruption from HS2 and its contractor . news that there will be yet more delay will cause they significant distress . will the Secretary of State update the House and explain what additional practical support , financial or otherwise , her Department plan to give rural community such as mine over the year ahead ? I think the big reassurance that I could give my hon . friend be my cast - iron commitment to ensure that we proceed as rapidly as possible with the completion of the remain construction work , which I know will have have an impact on his constituent . while I can not commit myself to the provision of further compensation from the Dispatch Box today , if they be experience particular problem he should not hesitate to bring they to my attention and that of my Department . I welcome the statement , and I do not disagree with a word of the Secretary of State ' s analysis of what have go wrong in the past . the Public Accounts Committee , which I have the honour of chairing , have produce eight comprehensive report over the 13 year of this project , and there be some common theme throughout those report . first , the Secretary of State ' s Department — I be not in any way blame she , because this be what go on in the past — do not have the right mix of skill to be able to challenge the assertion of those in HS2 Ltd : project manager , engineer , people who really know how to build a railway . secondly , as we say in our report publish on 28 February , we find that there be considerable disagreement between HS2 and the Department about the cost of the railway — the high estimate be the top range of HS2 , which be £ 66 billion in 2019 price and more than £ 80 billion in today ' s price — and I think we need an assurance fairly soon about what it be go to cost . thirdly , I be not at all surprised that the Secretary of State have have to delay the completion date , but this be the second reset in five year , so we really want to see it work . I think that the people of this country will be very keen to know , when her half - yearly report be publish and if possible before , when the project be likely to be complete . I thank the hon . Gentleman and his colleague on the Public Accounts Committee for the work that they have do on this over so many year . he be right to highlight the need for skill within the government so that they can act as a strong client of HS2 Ltd . we also need to ensure that we have the right commercial acuman in HS2 , and I know that the chief executive officer be work on that . I must , however , disappoint the hon . Gentleman , because I think it unlikely that in my next report to Parliament , which I believe be due before the summer recess , I will be able to provide any concrete information about a new schedule window and a new cost envelope . I think that the work will take the chief executive towards the end of the year before we be in a position to make that information public . my constituent know more than most about the daily misery of hs2 construction , particularly in the village of Water Orton and Kingsbury and the town of Coleshill , and they will welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . I meet the new chief executive officer , Mark Wild , on Monday to discuss the reset , and I be delighted that he accept my invitation to come to the Spud Club in Water Orton and talk to resident there . do my right hon . friend agree , however , that it be time we end the failure of oversight , the scandalous overspend and the suggest fraud , and it be time the dust settle on this project rather than settle on my constituent ' clean washing , clean car and clean window ? my hon . friend have paint a graphic picture . I understand that when large infrastructure work be take place those who live close to they will often experience disruption in their daily life , and I want to put on record my thank to the resident of Kingsbury , Coleshill and Water Orton for their patience . I agree wholeheartedly with my hon . friend that we need , once and for all , to put an end to this cycle of overspend , delay and waste , and get on and build a railway that be fit for the 21st century . the disastrous decision by the last Conservative Government to stop the work at Euston station dent investor and commuter confidence in our railway and in major infrastructure delivery . their failure to keep cost under control and to manage the basic of the project — simple thing such as turn up to meeting — have create the quagmire in which hs2 find itself today , and I do not envy the Secretary of State the task that confront she . I be glad to hear that the Government see the huge potential of a comprehensive redevelopment of Euston station , but can the Secretary of State reassure I that we will not end up with a cut - price station that do not realise the potential of the project ? I can give the hon . Gentleman that assurance . this be a once - in - a - generation opportunity not only to re - provide the exist Euston station — which , I be sure , will frustrate many member and their constituent at time — but to provide the new hs2 station there and to unlock land around it . that will enable new home to be deliver , but be also a massive commercial opportunity for regeneration in the heart of London . it be a very exciting opportunity — one that we will be say more about in the come week . delay to HS2 have blight part of west London around the main site at Old Oak Common . benefit , when they finally arrive , will include a major interchange with great Western Railway and the Elizabeth line . will the Secretary of State consider open the Elizabeth line station at Old Oak Common as soon as be feasible rather than wait for hs2 to begin operate , and will she reclaim some of the good will of the people of west London by direct a tiny fraction of the cost of hs2 to the repair of Hammersmith bridge ? my hon . friend have ask about the possibility of open an Elizabeth line station at Old Oak Common before the opening of the hs2 station . I will certainly speak to the Rail Minister , in the other place , and explore what the opportunity might be . if I may , I will then write to my hon . friend . he may have hear the Chancellor announce last week , during her statement on the spending review , that we be open and finance a structure fund to enable local authority with asset that be costly to repair to bid to the Government for help with repair dilapidated bridge , tunnel and so on . I will say more in due course about how the fund will operate , and I be sure that we will be talk about Hammersmith bridge again , as we have for many year . I thank the Secretary of State for the clarity of her statement . vast swathe of Staffordshire be currently own by HS2 — a third of the village of Hopton be under hs2 ownership — and this have an enormous impact on farmer and people who live along the route where so many empty house sit . can the Secretary of State reassure my constituent that that farmland and those house will be return to the farmer and to the people who actually want to live in those community ? I will be say more about the safeguard land and the direction that apply to it in due course . I thank the Secretary of State for the action that she have take today . they be clearly necessary , and it sound like we be on a well track . however , HS2 provide little or nothing for rail user in the south - west , other than ongoing delay during the construction and operation of Old Oak Common . will the Secretary of State consider funding , or prioritise the funding for , the critical final phase of the dawlish rail resilience work that will help business and rail user in Devon and Cornwall — and perhaps even in Swindon ? the hon . Gentleman tempt I to talk about the dawlish scheme . I must admit that it be a topic I will need to take up with the Rail Minister , and I will be happy to give the hon . Gentleman a response in writing in respect of the merit of the scheme . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for her honesty as she set out this late reset , necessitate by the mess that the Tories leave . Old Oak Common be part of my constituency , and this week eight association across two borough have band together to create the Old Oak Alliance , with the purpose of fighting for compensation and mitigation in the current circumstance . they will be bitterly disappoint by the news of even more prolonged disruption . will my right hon . friend meet I — or , well still , come on a site visit to meet they and see what they be put up with ? we be deal with a company whose idea of engagement be jam tomorrow and death by PowerPoint . I be sure the leadership of HS2 would be very concerned to hear that description of the way that the project be engage with local people . that be not what I expect of an infrastructure company , and I be sure it be not what the chief executive of HS2 Ltd would want either . I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend . the previous Government cancel phase 2 of HS2 , and from what the Secretary of State have say today , my understanding be that it remain cancel and that phase 2 will not be reinstate . that be the case , can she let I know when the hs2 ' s safeguarding of land , particularly in the mid - Cheshire section , will be lift ? I be afraid I can not give the right hon . Lady a date today , but I can assure she that I be fully cognisant of this issue . we need to look at whether there be any requirement for any future scheme . as soon as we be in a position to provide update , I will come back to this House and be sure to provide hon . member will all the relevant information . the hs2 line run down the west side of Aylesbury . it will bring no benefit at all to my constituency , yet my resident have suffer year of noise , disruption , flooding , loss of access to the countryside and the destruction of their natural environment as a result of its construction . I be pleased that the Government be get a grip on this issue , and I commend the Secretary of State for her honesty and focus , but my constituent will understandably be concern by the news of further delay and potential further disruption . can the Secretary of State confirm that she will do everything in her power to hold HS2 and its contractor to account in order to minimise the ongoing disruption for my long - suffer resident ? I can assure my hon . friend that we be determined to see the main work civil engineering contract complete as soon as possible . that be the element of construction that generally create most disturbance for local community , and we be pretty much at peak construction now . I thank her constituent for their patience while we continue to deliver this vital new piece of rail infrastructure . I have campaign against this hs2 project ever since 2010 , up and down the line . I never believe the original £ 35 billion price tag . furthermore , it would have benefit only rich businessman and drive business from the north of England to London — it would have have the opposite of the intended effect . rather than have another reset , have the moment not come to recognise that this be a failure ? let we scrap hs2 , use the ten of billion of pound that we can save in the next decade to upgrade railway line across the entirety of the United Kingdom to the benefit of many million , and spend the rest on other national priority in these financially straiten time . surely the time have come to scrap the entirety of the project and to recognise that we have get it wrong . we be not go to be a country that spend over £ 30 billion on rail infrastructure but then never see a train run on it . we have already see too much waste , and I be interested to hear that the hon . Gentleman be advocate more . we also have significant capacity constraint between Birmingham and London . he seem not to want to do anything about that , but I think those two great city deserve a railway that be fit for the 21st century ; I be just sorry that he do not . my constituency be the only one in the country that have hs2 phase 1 , phase 2a and phase 2b . it be not true to say that the line will not continue north of Birmingham , because it will cut through mile of Staffordshire , through my constituency , until it rejoin the main line at Handsacre . the failing of HS2 Ltd have be clear to my constituent for year and , frankly , it be shocking to hear about the dereliction of oversight by the previous Government , although it be what we have always suspect . People across Lichfield , Burntwood and the village will , quite rightly , be furious . farmer , landowner and business in my constituency have be fight tooth and nail with hs2 for year to get it to do the job right . we have see compulsory purchase that have never be pay , temporary possession that come with a multitude of exchange — back and forth , and back and forth again — with land agent take massive fee for thing that should have be sort year ago , crop loss payment that never come and many , many more issue . People in Streethay have have to deal with ongoing roadwork around a junction that have become far too overcomplicate by HS2 try to put a railway underneath it , and that have see the village almost cut off at time . People be absolutely sick of hs2 . the failing of that organisation be multitudinous , and the failing of the Conservatives to fully hold it to account should be an embarrassment to they and an embarrassment to this country . I really do welcome a reset , but it have to lead to meaningful change . can the Secretary of State give I and my constituent any assurance that it will be deliver as quickly as it possibly can be , and with as little disruption as we can get away with ? can she finally give we a timeline for when the safeguard land will be return to landowner ? this have be go on for far too long . I share my hon . friend ' s anger . he be a powerful advocate for his constituent , who have endure disruption , and I agree entirely that the way this project be handle be a dereliction of duty on the part of the previous Government . that be why we have appoint new leadership , why we be accept all the recommendation of the James Stewart review , and why we be go through this fundamental reset . as soon as I have receive advice from the new chief executive about the revise cost and schedule , I will update my hon . friend and other hon . member . as a south - west region MP , do the Secretary of State agree that the west country have for decade be the poor country cousin of our rail network , and that money spend on HS2 be money not spend elsewhere ? will she do all in her power to ensure that the relatively small change that be necessary on the network in the south - west to make life a lot easy go ahead , and will she look particularly at the absolutely woeful west of England line ? there be challenge across the rail network , and I readily accept that improvement be need in many part of the country . I do not necessarily accept that the south - west be the poor cousin of the rail network , but I can assure the right hon . gentleman of my determination to make sure that everyone , no matter where they live in this country , have a well rail service at the end of this Parliament than they do at the beginning of it . the Transport Secretary will know that my constituent have endure year of disruption , and of draw - out and poorly manage roadwork , as they drive past Lichfield on the A38 . give that billion of pound be squander by the previous Government and the disruption continue , can she say more about how she will get a grip on this project to ensure that we have vigorous oversight , and that it be deliver effectively and on time for our constituent ? we have appoint new leadership . we be establish new governance . we be look at the incentive contain in the contract on the civil engineering work . we will make sure that no stone be leave unturned in provide value for money for the taxpayer on HS2 , because this country be make a very significant investment and we need to ensure that every penny be wisely spend . the cost of HS2 have now spiral to over £ 100 billion . Welsh taxpayer be pay dearly for this appalling mess , even though we get no benefit whatsoever . Wales be now owe at least £ 5 billion . this be not go to go away — so when will we get our fair share ? the right hon . Lady may have hear the Chancellor announce in the spending review over £ 400 million of investment in the Welsh railway over 10 year . that will enable work to take place on the Burns station in south Wales , and at Padeswood siding on the north Wales line . it be a significant investment in Welsh railway , the like of which have not be see for many , many year . as shadow Transport Secretary for four year , I be wholly supportive of this concept . I just want to correct the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , who completely misunderstand its basis . as I be sure the Secretary of State agree , the purpose be to deliver capacity for the north of England — " speed " be a misnomer — but that opportunity have now be lose . can she give I some assurance that through the trans - Pennine upgrade , skill and expertise will be roll out across the entire north of England — not just to the north - west and Yorkshire , but to the north - east , include through the continue roll programme of electrification ? I be think specifically of the stretch from Northallerton to Middlesbrough and beyond , because that be where we get the gross value add and the economic growth from . can we have some assurance that those ambition will not be fetter one jot by this damn indictment of the past 15 year of failure ? I can assure my hon . friend that the Government 100 % recognise the need to improve rail connectivity in the midland and the north . he be also right to highlight the need for a stable pipeline of investment , so that the supply chain can plan , and so that we do not lose skill . the Government have an ambitious rail programme ; there be East West Rail , the trans - Pennine route upgrade and hs2 . I be determined to build on this country ' s proud railway heritage and ensure that we have railway fit for the modern day . the Devon and Cornwall rail network be only one severe storm away from be decapitate at Dawlish . phase 5 of the south - west rail resilience network be desperately need . when will the Minister visit the line to see how desperately need it be ? dawlish be a very beautiful part of the country , so I be very tempt to take the hon . gentleman up on his invitation . this be the second time in this statement that the dawlish programme have be raise . I give the hon . member for Newton Abbot ( Martin Wrigley ) an undertaking that I would speak to the Rail Minister on that subject and then write to he ; I will come back to the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) in write at the same time . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . HS2 have be an abject failure when it come to the political accountability of the previous Administration . on transport efficiency , will she press on with reform to the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency , so that we can fix the drive test system and keep our country move ? we have a really important programme of work across all arm - length body of the Department for Transport , include the DVSA . it be really important that we provide public service in an efficient and effective way . I be conscious that my hon . friend ' s constituent and other may be very keen for rapid progress on drive test wait time . I can assure he that the issue be a focus of discussion that I be have with the DVSA . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement . I too serve on the Public Accounts Committee , so I know that while HS2 be by far the large civil infrastructure programme in the United Kingdom , the second large be the low Thames cross from Tilbury to Gravesend , for which about £ 10 billion be currently budget . if her tight approach to HS2 produce saving , be there any way that some of they might be vire to pay for the low Thames crossing ? if not , exactly which private - sector company will pay for it ? so far , I be afraid the Government have be rather vague on that point . we be explore finance option for the low Thames crossing . on Monday we announce that there would be £ 590 million of public funding this year to take forward utility work and some land purchase . I will say more to this House in future about the private finance arrangement that we be explore . I commend my right hon . friend for the swift action she have take to try to put right this disastrous situation , create by the previous Government . the parallel with the fast - track contract for personal protective equipment can not be ignore . I understand that contract be sign when appropriate decision have not be make . will the people who sign those contract be interview ? will they have to explain why they decide to take those decision , against advice ? will we get any of that money back ? as I say in my statement , the Prime Minister have ask the Cabinet Secretary to investigate whether the James Stewart report raise any question for the civil service or the wide public sector . my hon . friend be completely right to highlight the point about contract be sign with construction company even before the scope of the work have be agree . it be little wonder that the country have end up pay more . we sign a contract with a company to deliver work , yet there be no clarity whatever about what work the Government want they to do . this be a dreadful and woeful failure of oversight by previous Government Ministers , and I will not allow that to happen on my watch . before I be elect to this place , I be a member of HS2 ' s independent panel for the community and environment fund and business and local economy fund . the Secretary of State ' s statement make for pretty shocking reading . there be talk of fraud and shambolic mismanagement — thing that should bring shame on everybody involve . one of the problem with HS2 be always the name , which put the focus on speed , rather than capacity . my Hazel Grove constituent use the west coast main line , and they talk to I about the capacity problem that remain . indeed , I see they every week when I come up and down to work . the Secretary of State say that she be not reinstate the line north of Birmingham . she also say that trans - Pennine work be under way . what specific work be be undertake by her Department on capacity on the west coast main line north of Birmingham ? I be aware that the Mayor of the West Midlands and the Mayor of Greater Manchester have put proposal to the Government on this issue . in the mid - 2030 , we be likely to see severe capacity constraint between Birmingham and Manchester . we be review those proposal , and I hope to be able to say more on they in the month ahead . I thank the Secretary of State for the honesty with which she have address these very difficult issue . may I ask she to say a little more about the lesson that can be learn from the success of the Elizabeth line — both the far superior leadership and management of the programme , and the economic benefit generate ? the £ 18 billion invest in capital yield £ 42 billion in benefit in just the first three year of this amazing piece of infrastructure . while the delivery of the Elizabeth line be one of my proud achievement as deputy mayor for transport in London , I must admit that it be not without its challenge . the trust between Transport for London and the delivery project , and the transparency and honesty between different part of the system , be among the fine aspect of how we get the project over the line . it be one of my proud day when her Majesty Queen Elizabeth open the Elizabeth line at Paddington shortly before she pass away . there be a lot of learn that we need to take from Crossrail . we be do that , and we be determined to get on and see this railway open . East West Rail be due to travel through my constituency , on the historic Marston Vale line . how will the Secretary of State ensure that the mistake make on hs2 — we have hear some shocking story today — will not also be make on East West Rail ? I be afraid that there be very little confidence in the East West Rail Company . it be important that my community be listen to , that we deliver this infrastructure fast and at low cost , and that people who be impact be properly compensate . East West Rail be fundamentally different from the construction of hs2 . the hon . Gentleman will know that it be be deliver in three phase , and that it be only the latter phase , between Bedford and Cambridge , that will necessitate the construction of new track . the chief executive of East West Rail , David Hughes , be determined to deliver the scheme rapidly , offer good value for money to the taxpayer , and properly engage with community . if there be any particular issue the hon . Gentleman be concerned about , he should raise they with I , and I will gladly speak with the leadership there . on the Public Accounts Committee , I ask HS2 boss what I think be a relatively simple question : how much be they spend on newt mitigation ? however , they could not give an answer . similarly , I can confirm to the House that I have information suggest that the cost of the so - call bat tunnel be well north of the purport £ 100 million . I commend the Secretary of State for the leadership that she have show today . will she hold HS2 accountable for some of these bat - shed crazy cost ? I can assure my hon . friend that the estimate cost of the bat structure be £ 95 million in 2019 price . I agree that we can not have an environmental mitigation regime that allow this sort of thing to happen . the Government have put forward significant reform in this space , and we will continue to monitor the need for further change , so that we can deliver infrastructure in a well way . I thank the Secretary of State for give a candid and transparent statement to this House . on Birmingham — I be the only Birmingham MP present , which surprise I — it be disappointing that there will be delay and additional cost , but every cloud have a silver lining . my constituency have one of the high level of unemployment at 17 % — four time the national average . in addition , we have see the closure of a number of local station ; it would improve the network if they be reopen . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how we can get my constituent into job , and the possibility of open three station : Handsworth Wood , Soho Road and City Health Campus ? I would be very happy to ask the Rail Minister to meet the hon . gentleman to talk about the station in Birmingham that he mention . I welcome the statement from the Secretary of State . may I speak today of the east of England ? the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) famously promise a dividend when he cancel HS2 North , so might we expect some of that to be use to replace the crucial Haughley and Ely junction , in order to finally sort out the rail connection in the east of England ? I understand the importance of the Ely area scheme in term of rail infrastructure , and I hope to say more about rail investment in the week before the summer recess . will the Secretary of State set out the step she be take to ensure that infrastructure like the £ 100 million bat tunnel will not be include in future project , such as East West Rail ? I can tell the hon . Gentleman that the Planning and Infrastructure Bill include proposal to reform specie and habitat protection . the proposal for environmental delivery plan and the nature restoration fund enable a shift to protect the whole population of a specie , rather than focus on purely local consideration . that will ensure well outcome for nature , without cause we to incur unreasonable cost , as happen with the HS2 bat mitigation structure . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer to my hon . friend the Member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) on capacity on the west coast main line . stockport be the one place where it be at full capacity , and HS2 be mean to solve that ; however , because of the cancellation of the northern leg of HS2 , we face hs2 train go through Stockport ' s already pack line . I welcome the response to the plan put forward by the Mayors of the West Midlands and Greater Manchester , but will the Secretary of State commit to engage with Stockport council on those plan ? we need to find a solution to this capacity issue , because it could hold my borough back for decade . I be very conscious of the need to invest in and improve public transport in Stockport , and if the council would like to write to I with any relevant information , I will gladly consider it . I also point out that our investment in transport for city region , announce a couple of week , be good news for Stockport ; Metrolink will be extend to the town . I hope the hon . Gentleman will welcome that as good news for his constituent . it may surprise the Secretary of State , but I actually have some sympathy for she for inherit the HS2 nightmare . when she receive the update budget and timeframe , will there be a cost and a timeline at which point she will say , " enough be enough — it ' s well to stop , " or be it an open - end cheque book ? if the hon . Gentleman have bother to read the spending review last week , he would have see that the Government have commit £ 25 billion over the next four year , which enable work to be take forward . as I have say a number of time today , I will be update the House when I have further information available about both the overall cost envelope , the estimate final cost at completion and the anticipated schedule . with a decade of delay , cost spiral to eye - watering sum of anywhere between £ 60 billion and £ 100 billion and now credible allegation of fraud in the supply chain , will the Secretary of State say what step the Government will take to recover hard - work taxpayer ' money from fraudster , hold those responsible to account and announce a final stop to waste money ? I have say on a number of occasion that billion of pound of taxpayer ' money have be waste by constant scope change , ineffective contract and bad management . that be what this reset of HS2 be all about — it be why we have appoint the new leadership , and it be why we be fundamentally change the governance structure . as I say in answer to previous question , the matter of potential fraud in the supply chain be be investigate by HMRC , and we will be provide update to the House as and when further information be available . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wish to once again raise the case of Alaa Abd el - Fattah , the british - egyptian citizen who be still imprison in Egypt . his mother have be on hunger strike for a long time now ; she be in St Thomas ' hospital , and her health be deteriorate . I ask those on the Treasury Bench now to take a message back to the Prime Minister that we need to do everything we possibly can to secure Alaa ' s release , because I fear that we may well lose his mother , Laila Soueif . one initiative that could be try again be a joint approach between our Prime Minister and President Macron to President Sisi to urge Alaa ' s release . I think we be in a dangerous moment . the Government have undertake a number of action ; the Prime Minister commit to do all in his power , and he have approach President Sisi . however , I just feel we need to make at least another last attempt , both to secure the release of Alaa and to secure the life of his mother . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order and for notice of it . he have put his point on the record , and I be sure his concern will have be hear by those on the Treasury Bench . Bill present Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Liz Kendall , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Pat McFadden , Secretary Jonathan Reynolds , Ellie Reeves , Sir Steven Timms , Alison McGovern , torsten Bell and Andrew Western , present a Bill to make provision to alter the rate of the standard allowance , limited capability for work element and limited capability for work and work - relate activity element of universal credit and the rate of income - relate employment and support allowance , and to restrict eligibility for the personal independence payment . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 267 ) , with explanatory note ( Bill 267 - en ) . right to Manage and Leasehold Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the definition of qualifying tenant for the purpose of claim a right to manage ; to reduce the proportion of qualifying tenant require to give notice of a claim to acquire a right to manage ; to establish a duty on freeholder to assist a right to manage company in establish contact with leaseholder within the freeholder ' s property ; to make provision about establish a presumption in favour of a right to manage in certain circumstance before the First Tier Tribunal ; to require the Secretary of State to review procedure for convert leasehold property into commonhold property ; and for connected purpose . I rise to speak on a topic that matter dearly to all of we in this House : accountability and representation . as legislator , our job be to hold legislation to account and ensure that it represent our constituent ' interest . it be the role of our constituent , in turn , to hold we to account whenever election arise . I would like to thank my constituent for join we in the Gallery today . accountability be at the heart of our consumer relationship , with standard and competition embed into commercial law . it be also a key part of our social contract . when someone in a position of power do wrong , there need to be a system of recourse . when it come to housing , however , this too often go out the window . frequently , there be a stark gap between those who provide our housing and those who live in it , alongside an accountability deficit , whether in private renting , social housing or the sector that the Bill seek to remedy : leasehold . my constituency have the high proportion of leaseholder in the country . for too long they have have to endure a system that leave they without full control over their home and at the mercy of a wide range of bad actor . I be proud to be elect on a manifesto that promise to ban the sale of new leasehold property and make commonhold the default tenure across the land . since the election , the Government have act with speed in this area : inherit a rush piece of legislation from their predecessor and untangle it with speed ; set out our plan for reform ; publish a White Paper on commonhold ; and expedite move that include the recent reform to the right to manage . those action have already have a positive impact in the Cities of London and Westminster . constituent have write to I say that they submit right to manage application on 3 March , as the Government ' s change allow they to do so . I join they in thank this government for act so quickly in this area , and I look forward with interest to the publication of the leasehold and commonhold reform Bill later this year . one of the most visible consequence of the leasehold system be the scourge of unscrupulous manage agent . for the past six month , my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) and I have be co - ordinate action as co - chair of Labour for leasehold , which be an alliance of 150 Labour party colleague against some of the worst - perform actor in this sector . many of the Members support this Bill have be tirelessly advocate in this campaign for leaseholder in their constituency and nationwide , and I pay tribute to that work . in the course of our work , we have hear story of resident suffer at the hand of manage agent as they fail to conduct essential repair , engage in threaten and abusive behaviour towards resident and even run off with hundred of thousand of pound of leaseholder ' money — all while provide little justification for their service or the high fee that they charge . in this process I have also meet the most dedicated leaseholder , organiser who have collect testimony from thousand of neighbour to highlight poor practice , accountant who have volunteer their time to scrutinise invoice and auditing process , and lawyer who have provide free advice to other building go through the first - tier tribunal . however , without a legal system that support they , the leaseholder remain unable to seek the accountability that they deserve from distant and disinterested manage agent . these leaseholder include my constituent in Neville House — share owner who pay £ 5 , 000 a year in service charge for service that have not be deliver for 20 year , with report of mould be ignore for month , and who be stick between their social landlord , manage agent and a freeholder in a complex cladding case . they include the resident of Sheldon Square who have have manage agent ignore sewage leak into their flat , have be bill for damage cause by contractor to their building , and have receive threaten letter post to individual leaseholder in flagrant breach of datum protection . these leaseholder also include the resident of Oxford and Cambridge Mansions , whose manage agent and freeholder have ignore report of gross misconduct against building staff , fail to take action on leak persist for year , and ignore report of damp and mould emerge from flat that they themselves own and be use as storage room , all while complex major work loom with an opaque tendering process that may cost resident million . ultimately , the situation amount to one of accountability and representation . in most case , manage agent do not feel a need to represent leaseholder ' interest , and the only accountability they have be to the building ' s freeholder , who far too often take little interest in resident ’ welfare . there be some way out of this situation , and one be by acquire the right to manage . that involve form a right to manage association , recruit half of the flat in a block to join , and submit an application to the landlord , who can then accept it or drag leaseholder through the first - tier tribunal . there be multiple loophole and hurdle obstruct leaseholder from achieve even this basic step . property can not have over a certain percentage of square footage of commercial space , and sometimes even flowerbed or communal car park get include in that . even when large number of resident be in favour of get the right to manage , and no one in the building be opposed , hit the 50 % threshold can be difficult . this be due to a number of reason , from owner who do not reside in their property to freeholder who retain a large number of flat in the building to let out privately or , as mention previously , to use as storage room . this Bill would go some way to rectify this hurdle . first , it would lower the threshold require for a successful right to manage application from 50 % of qualifying leaseholder to 35 % . as many campaigner have point out , this alone be not enough . that be why the Bill redefine qualify tenant during a right to manage application as tenant who respond either positively or negatively when ask to vote . put simply , it change the threshold for a right to manage claim from , " can you find a majority of the flat owner in your building ? " , to , " do enough of the actual leaseholder in your block want this to go ahead ? " . the Bill address a number of other issue too . most notably , it establish a duty for freeholder to assist the right to manage company when it contact their fellow leaseholder , and it establish a presumption in favour of leaseholder on occasion when freeholder counter - claim at the first - tier tribunal . this Bill do not go all the way to fix the right to manage , and a number of obstacle would remain , particularly in mixed - use development . there be no quick fix to the right to manage , commonhold or any other reform . manage block of flat will always remain challenging and will lead to difficult debate within building as to how to manage complex and expensive work . what matter be that the company who manage the building be accountable and represent fairly the people who live in the building . through reinvigorate the right to manage , we can achieve this . leaseholder across the country be ready to take this step to hold their manage agent to account . all they need be for the law to be on their side . question put and agree to . order , that Rachel Blake , Lizzi Collinge , Dr Beccy Cooper , Deirdre Costigan , Emily Darlington , Marsha De Cordova , Anna Dixon , Amanda Hack , Jayne Kirkham , Uma Kumaran , Sarah Russell and Yuan Yang present the Bill . Rachel Blake accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 4 July , and to be print ( Bill 265 ) . crime and Policing Bill [ 2nd Allocated Day ] further consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee [ relevant document : Fourth Report of the Women and Equalities Committee , tackle non - consensual intimate image abuse , HC 336 , and the Government response , HC 911 ; correspondence from the Women and Equalities Committee to the parliamentary Under - Secretary of State , Ministry of Justice , on tackle non - consensual intimate image abuse , report to the House on 4 June ] New Clause 2 - commercial sexual exploitation by a third party " ( 1 ) a person commit an offence if — ( a ) the person ( c ) assist , facilitate , control , or incite , by any mean , another person ( b ) to engage in sexual activity with another person ( a ) in exchange for payment or other benefit , anywhere in the world ; and ( b ) the circumstance be that — ( i ) the person ( C ) know or ought to know that the other person ( b ) be engage in sexual activity for payment ; and ( ii ) the person ( c ) assist , facilitate , control , or incite the other person ( b ) to engage in sexual activity with another person ( A ) ; or ( iii ) the person ( C ) cause or allow to be display or publish , include digitally , any advertisement in respect of activity prohibit by section 1a and 1b ( i ) . ( 2 ) a person ( c ) commit an offence under subsection ( 1 ) regardless of whether they secure personal financial gain , or personally benefit in any way , from facilitate person ( b ) engage in sexual activity with person ( a ) in exchange for payment or other benefit . ( 3 ) a person ( d ) commit an offence under subsection ( 1 ) if they knowingly secure financial gain , or benefit in any way , from person ( b ) engage in sexual activity with person ( a ) in exchange for payment or other benefit , anywhere in the world , regardless of whether person ( d ) facilitate the exchange between person B and A . ( 4 ) a person guilty of an offence under this section be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 6 month or a fine not exceed the statutory maximum or both ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 10 year . ( 5 ) in consider the seriousness of an offence commit under subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) ( iii ) , the court must treat the following as aggravating factor — ( a ) the annual financial turnover of the digital or physical platform ( the platform ) use to facilitate and or advertise activity prohibit in subsection1a and 1b ( i ) ; ( b ) the number of prostitution relate offence , under subsection ( 1 ) , facilitate by the platform in question ; and ( c ) whether the platform have facilitate trafficking for sexual exploitation . ( 6 ) a person who be a UK national commit an offence under this section regardless of where the offence take place . ( 7 ) a person who be not a UK national commit an offence under this section if any part of the offence take place in the UK . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the Act receive Royal Assent , make regulation to appoint a public body ( the designate body ) to monitor and enforce compliance by online platform with this section . ( 9 ) Regulations make under subsection ( 5 ) may provide the designate body with the power , contain in section 144 of the Online Safety Act 2023 , to apply to the court for a Service Restriction Order . ( 10 ) the designated body must , within six month of it be appoint under regulation make by subsection ( 5 ) , lie before Parliament a report outline its plan for monitor compliance with , and enforcement of , the provision of this section of the Act . ( 11 ) the designated body must lay before Parliament an annual report outline its progress in ensure compliance with the provision of this Act , include information on enforcement activity relate to these provision . " — ( Tonia Antoniazzi . ) this new clause would make it a criminal offence to enable or profit from the prostitution of another person , include by operate a website host advert for prostitution . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 3 — commercial sexual exploitation — " ( 1 ) a person ( a ) who give , offer , or promise payment to a person ( b ) to engage in sexual activity with person ( a ) shall be guilty of an offence . ( 2 ) a person ( a ) who give , offer , or promise payment to a person ( b ) to engage in sexual activity with any other person ( c ) shall be guilty of an offence . ( 3 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) — ( a ) a ' payment ' include money , a benefit , or any other consideration ; ( b ) an activity be sexual if a reasonable person would consider that — ( i ) whatever its circumstance or any person ' s purpose in relation to it , it be because of its nature sexual , or ( ii ) because of its nature it may be sexual and because of its circumstance or the purpose of any person in relation to it ( or both ) it be sexual ; ( c ) no offence be commit by a person ( A ) unless the sexual activity with the other person ( b ) involve — ( i ) the person ( A or C ) be in the other person ( b ) ' s presence , and ( ii ) physical contact between the person ( A or C ) and the other person ( B ) , or ( iii ) the person ( b ) touch themselves for the sexual gratification of the other person ( A or C ) ; ( d ) it be immaterial whether the payment be give , offer , or promise by a person ( a ) engage in the sexual activity , or a third party . ( 4 ) a person guilty of an offence under subsection ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 6 month or a fine not exceed the statutory maximum ( or both ) , and a requirement to complete an offender behaviour programme at the offender ' s expense ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 10 year or a fine not exceed the statutory maximum ( or both ) . ( 5 ) a person who be not a UK national commit an offence under subsection ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) if any part of the offence take place in the UK . " this new clause make it an offence to pay for , or attempt to , pay for sex either for themselves or on behalf of other . new clause 4 — victim of commercial sexual exploitation — " ( 1 ) the Street Offences Act 1959 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) Omit Sections 1 and 2 . " this new clause decriminalise victim of commercial sexual exploitation by repeal the offence of " Loitering or solicit for purpose of prostitution " and relevant relate part of the Street Offences Act 1959 . new clause 5 — interpretation ( dangerous , careless or inconsiderate cycling ) — " ( 1 ) the Road Traffic Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 32 insert — ' 32a Interpretation of section 27a to 32 ( 1 ) for the purpose of section 27a to 32 , " a cycle " include but be not limit to — ( a ) a pedal cycle , ( b ) an electronically assist pedal cycle , ( c ) a mechanically propel personal transporter , include — ( i ) an electric scooter , ( ii ) a self - balance personal transporter ( include a self - balance scooter , self - balance board or electric unicycle ) , and ( iii ) any other mechanically propel personal transporter provide for by the Secretary of State in regulation make under this section . ( 2 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) , mechanically propel personal transporter be to be define in regulation make by the Secretary of State under this section . ' " this new clause would define " a cycle " as include a pedal cycle , an e - bike , or a mechanically propel personal transporter , for the purpose of cycling offence under the Road Traffic Act 1988 , include the propose new clause table by the Government on dangerous , careless of inconsiderate cycling . new clause 7 — Abolition of non - crime hate incident — " ( 1 ) Non - crime hate incident as a special category of incident to be recognise by police authority be abolish . report , recording and investigation of such incident should occur only in the limited circumstance provide for in this section . ( 2 ) for the purpose of article 6 ( 1 ) of the UK GDPR , section 35 of the Data Protection Act 2018 ( ' the Act ' ) and article 8 of the Law Enforcement Directive , the processing of relevant datum by a police authority be unlawful . ( 3 ) in this section , ' relevant datum ' mean personal datum relate to the conduct or allege of a datum subject which be unlikely to constitute criminal conduct and which have be perceive by another person to be motivate ( wholly or partly ) by hostility or prejudice towards one or more person who have or who be or have be perceive to have one or more relevant characteristic and with that hostility or prejudice arise due to that or the perception of those protect characteristic . ( 4 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 3 ) , the follow be relevant characteristic — ( a ) race , ( b ) religion , ( c ) sexual orientation , ( d ) disability , ( e ) transgender identity . ( 5 ) subsection ( 2 ) do not apply in respect of the processing of relevant datum — ( a ) pursuant to an ongoing criminal investigation or prosecution , ( b ) for the purpose of the internal administrative function of the police authority . ( 6 ) subsection ( 2 ) do not apply in respect of the retention of a record ( a ' non - crime perception record ' ) of relevant datum where a police officer ( the ' certify officer ' ) of the rank of inspector or above certifie that in their opinion the retention of the non - crime perception record be likely materially to assist in the detection or prevention of criminal conduct which may occur in the future . ( 7 ) where a certify officer certify the retention of a non - crime perception record pursuant to subsection ( 6 ) — ( a ) the certify officer must include in the record a description of the future criminal conduct they have in mind and the reason they believe that the retention of the record may assist in its detection or prevention , ( b ) the relevant datum which may be retain as part of the record may be no more than the certify officer believe be likely materially to assist in the detection or prevention of criminal conduct , ( c ) a copy of the record must be expeditiously provide to the datum subject unless an officer of the of the rank of superintendent or above certifie that — ( i ) the provision of the record to the datum subject may interfere in the detection or prevention of criminal conduct , or ( ii ) the officer be satisfied that it be not reasonably practicable to provide a copy of the record to the data subject . ( 8 ) if the datum subject object to the retention of the non - crime perception record , subsection ( 6 ) do not apply unless a police officer of the rank of superintendent or above certifie that in their opinion the retention of the non - crime perception record be likely materially to assist in the detection or prevention of criminal conduct which may occur in the future . ( 9 ) no police authority or police officer can be hold under any circumstance to be under any duty to undertake the retention of any relevant datum . ( 10 ) after subsection 113B ( 3 ) of the Police Act 1997 insert — ' ( 3A ) an enhance criminal record certificate must not give the detail of a relevant matter to the extent that do so would result in the disclosure of relevant datum as define in section ( the retention by the police of non - crime perception record ) of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 . ' ( 11 ) for subsection 39a ( 3 ) of the Police Act 1996 substitute — ' ( 3 ) no part of any Code of Practice issue by the College of Policing may be in a form which could be issue by the Secretary of State pursuant to section 60 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 . ' ( 12 ) section 60 the 2022 Act be to be amend as follow — ( a ) the cross head to be change to ' Non - crime perception record ' , ( b ) the section head to be change to ' Code of practice relate to non - crime perception record ' , ( c ) in subsection ( 1 ) leave out from ' by ' to the end of the subsection and insert ' of relevant datum ' , ( d ) omit subsection ( 2 ) , ( e ) in subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) , leave out ' personal datum relate to a hate incident ' and insert ' relevant datum ' , ( f ) in subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) , ( c ) , ( d ) and ( e ) , for ' such personal datum ' substitute ' relevant datum ' , ( g ) in subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) , for ' personal datum ' substitute ' relevant datum ' , ( h ) in subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) , leave out ' personal datum relate to the alleged perpetrator of a hate incident ' and insert ' relevant datum relate to the alleged perpetrator ' , ( i ) in subsection ( 7 ) , at end , insert ' relevant datum ' have the meaning give by section ( the retention by the police of non - crime perception record ) of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 . ( 13 ) any code of practice previously issue under section 60 of the 2022 Act be deem to be withdraw . ( 14 ) within three month of the commencement of each calendar year , each police authority which be retain non - crime perception record must — ( a ) undertake a review of the relevant datum by an independent person to ensure that any retention of such record be in compliance with the provision of this section . ( b ) publish a report in respect of the review prepare by the independent person include set — ( i ) the total number of non - crime perception record retain by the police authority ; ( ii ) the total number of datum subject to which those record relate ; and ( iii ) the equivalent number of those record add in the previous year . ( 15 ) in this section — ( a ) ' a police authority ' mean — ( i ) a person specify or describe in paragraph 5 to 17 of Schedule 7 of the Act , ( ii ) a person act under the authority of such a person , ( b ) the term ' datum subject ' , ' process ' and ' the UK GDPR ' have the same meaning as under section 3 of the Act , ( c ) ' the Law Enforcement Directive ' mean the Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 680 of the European Parliament , ( d ) ' the 2022 Act ' mean the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 . " this new clause would amend legislation and guidance to remove the recording and retention of non - crime hate incident , replace that in some instance with non - crime perception record . new clause 8 — CCTV on railway network — " ( 1 ) it be a legal requirement for CCTV camera across the railway network in England and Wales to be capable of enable immediate access by the British Transport Police and relevant Police Forces . ( 2 ) all footage retain by CCTV camera on the railway network must remain accessible to the British Transport Police and relevant Police Forces for the entirety of the retention period . ( 3 ) the retention period specify in subsection ( 2 ) be 30 calendar day . ( 4 ) far to subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must publish a report , within three month of the passing of this Act , specify a compatibility standard that will facilitate CCTV access for the British Transport Police and any Police Force in England and Wales . " new clause 9 — training for those subject to a mandatory reporting duty — " ( 1 ) any person who be subject to the duty under section 66 ( 1 ) , must be train to an appropriate standard to carry out their responsibility under the duty . ( 2 ) such training shall be deem appropriate only if it include , but be not limit to , the follow component — ( a ) the recognise sign and indicator of child sexual abuse , ( b ) what it mean to suspect a child sexual offence may have be commit under the duty , as outline in section 68 — ( i ) include understand the different way child may disclose abuse , and ( ii ) the barrier to child disclose abuse , ( c ) how to respond to and support a child who they have be give reason to suspect be the victim of a child sexual offence , as set out in section 68 , ( d ) how to make notification in accordance with section 66 ( 2 ) , ( e ) how to judge whether make a notification would pose a risk to the life or safety of a relevant child , as set out in section 66 ( 5 ) , and ( f ) how to understand , identify and apply the exemption for consensual peer on peer activity , as set out in section 69 , 70 and 71 . " this new clause would ensure that those subject to the mandatory reporting duty for child sexual abuse be provide with appropriate training to equip they to fulfil these obligation . new clause 10 — meaning of exploitation : modern slavery — " ( 1 ) section ( 3 ) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 ( meaning of exploitation ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after subsection ( 6 ) ( b ) insert — ' Criminal Exploitation ( 7 ) something be do to or in respect of the person which involve the commission of an offence under section 38 of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 ( child criminal exploitation ) . ' " this new clause seek to ensure criminally exploit child be not prosecute for offence commit as result of their exploitation . new clause 11 — offence of verbal and physical abuse of public transport worker — " ( 1 ) this section apply to a qualifying offence that be commit against a public transport worker act in the exercise of function as such a worker . ( 2 ) in this section , a ' qualify offence ' be — ( a ) an offence of common assault , or battery , under section 39 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 , or ( b ) an offence of harassment under section 2 of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 which involve the verbal abuse of the public transport worker . ( 3 ) a person guilty of an offence to which this section apply be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 12 month , or to a fine ( or both ) ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 12 month , or to a fine ( or both ) . ( 4 ) in subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , ' public transport worker ' mean any person work on public transport , whether on public transport vehicle , or in public transport station , or in any relevant setting where they be work in their capacity as a public transport worker . ( 5 ) it be immaterial for the purpose of this section whether the employment or engagement be pay or unpaid . " new clause 12 — Definition of modern slavery exploitation : orphanage trafficking — " ( 1 ) section ( 3 ) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after subsection ( 6 ) ( b ) insert — ' orphanage trafficking ( 7 ) the person be a child who have be recruit into a residential care institution overseas for the purpose of financial gain and exploitation . ' " this new clause would expand the definition of exploitation under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 to include child who have be recruit into residential care institution that engage in orphanage trafficking . new clause 13 — Joint Enterprise — " ( 1 ) the Accessories and Abettors Act 1861 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 8 ( abettor in misdemeanour ) , after ' shall ' insert ' , by make a significant contribution to its commission , ' . " new clause 14 — duty to review treatment of childhood conviction and caution — " ( 1 ) within a year of this Act receive Royal Assent , the Secretary of State must lay before both Houses of Parliament a report on the management of childhood conviction and caution . ( 2 ) the report must look at — ( a ) the prevention of automatic disclosure of childhood conditional caution ; ( b ) the prevention of adult treatment of offence commit by individual who be minor at the time of the offence , in question , take place ; ( c ) the range of childhood conviction which be remove from standard and enhanced check after five and a half year . ( 3 ) in consider the area outline in subsection ( 2 ) , the report must look at the policy merit for reform of the exist management of childhood conviction and caution , and the legislative step which would be require in each case for reform to take place . " new clause 15 — unlicensed driver : penalty — " ( 1 ) the Road Traffic Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 87 , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 2A ) the maximum penalty available to the Courts when sentence an individual who have be convict of drive without a license , and who have never hold a license , shall be an unlimited fine , or a custodial sentence of six month ( or both ) . ' " new clause 16 — failure to stop — " ( 1 ) the Road Traffic Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 170 , after subsection ( 4 ) insert — ' ( 4A ) the maximum penalty available to the Courts when sentence an individual who have be convict of an offence under this section be as follow — ( a ) an unlimited fine ; ( b ) a custodial sentence of one year ; and ( c ) disqualification from drive for a period of up to two year . when consider its sentence , the Court may issue more than one of the maximum penalty list above . ' " new clause 18 — definition of the criminal exploitation of child — " for the purpose of define the offence create in section 38 of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 ( child criminal exploitation ) , the criminal exploitation of child be a form of child abuse in which a child under the age of 18 be use for purpose that constitute , enable or facilitate an offence under the law in England and Wales , regardless of whether the activity appear to be consensual , or whether the activity occur online , through the use of technology , or in person . " this new clause would create a statutory definition of the criminal exploitation of child . new clause 19 — Power of Secretary of State to disregard conviction or caution — " ( 1 ) the Protection of Freedoms Act 2012 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 92 ( 1 ) after ' same sex ' insert ' , or for an offence commit under Section 1 of the Street Offences Act 1959 ' . ( 3 ) in section 92 ( 2 ) after ' a and B be meet ' insert , ' , or , for a conviction or caution for an offence commit under Section 1 of the Street Offences Act 1959 , b alone be meet ' . " this new clause would mean that conviction or caution for loitering or solicit for the purpose of prostitution become disregarded . new clause 21 — prohibition of the use of live facial recognition technology by police force — " ( 1 ) the use of live facial recognition technology for real - time biometric identification in publicly accessible space by police force be prohibit . ( 2 ) Notwithstanding subsection ( 1 ) , facial recognition system use for biometric verification , where the sole purpose be to confirm a person ' s identity for the purpose of unlock a device or have security access to premise , be not prohibit . " new clause 22 — automate decision - making in the law enforcement context — " ( 1 ) where a significant decision take by , or on behalf of , a controller in relation to a data subject in the law enforcement context be — ( a ) base entirely or partly on personal datum , and ( b ) base solely on automate processing , the controller must ensure that safeguard , which comply with subsection ( 2 ) , for the datum subject ' s right , freedom and legitimate interest be in place . ( 2 ) the safeguard must consist of , or include , measure which — ( a ) provide the datum subject with personalised information about any decision describe in subsection ( 1 ) that have be take in relation to the data subject ; ( b ) enable the datum subject to make representation about such decision ; ( c ) enable the datum subject to obtain human intervention from the controller in relation to such decision ; ( d ) enable the datum subject to contest such decision ; ( e ) ensure human reviewer of algorithmic decision have the necessary competence , training , time to consider , authority to challenge the decision , and analytical understanding of the datum to rectify automated decision ; and ( f ) require the publication of any algorithmic tool that have be use to process personal datum on the Algorithmic Transparency Recording Standard . ( 3 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , a decision base entirely or partly on personal datum may not be make unless — ( a ) the data subject have give explicit consent ; or ( b ) the decision be require or authorise by law . " new clause 23 — restriction on the delivery of pointed knife after agreement make by distance communication — " ( 1 ) this section apply to any delivery of a pointed knife if the cut edge of its blade exceed 3 inch and , ( a ) the delivery of the pointed knife be the result of an agreement make by distance communication ; and ( b ) either the delivery or the agreement for the delivery be make in the course of a business . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section an agreement be make by ' distance communication ' if , at the time that the agreement be make , none of the party to the agreement be within visual sight of the other . ( 3 ) a party be not within visual sight of another if the only way that they can be see be by use of an electronic , digital or other artificial mean . ( 4 ) a company or partnership be to be treat as be within visual sight of any other party if one or more of its employee or partner be within visual sight of the other party . ( 5 ) a means of distance communication may include , but not be limit to — ( a ) electronic mail , ( b ) unaddresse print matter , ( c ) telephone with human intervention , ( d ) telephone without human intervention ( include automatic call machine , audiotext ) , ( e ) videophone ( telephone with screen ) , ( f ) any form of social medium , ( g ) address print matter , ( h ) letter , ( i ) press advertising with order form , ( j ) catalogue , ( k ) radio , ( l ) videotext ( microcomputer and television screen ) with keyboard or touch screen , ( m ) facsimile machine ( fax ) , or ( n ) television ( teleshoppe ) . ( 6 ) a person in England or Wales be guilty of an offence if they knowingly or recklessly cause a pointed knife to be deliver or deliver any pointed knife to either — ( a ) domestic premise ; or ( b ) a remote locker or collection point which be not supervise by a human being at the time when the pointed knife be collect ( 7 ) for the purpose of this section domestic premise be define as any premise which have not be assess as liable for business rate and do not appear as such on the list maintain by the Valuation Agency Office . ( 8 ) a person guilty of an offence under this section be liable on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceed twelve month , or a fine not exceed Level 5 on the standard scale or both . ( 9 ) nothing in this section prevent the delivery of rounded knife without a point . " this new clause would create an offence of deliver a lethal point knife to domestic premise or remote locker / collection point . new clause 24 — prohibition of display of pointed knife — " ( 1 ) a person who in the course of a business display any pointed knife , or cause any pointed knife to be display , in a place in England and Wales or Northern Ireland be guilty of an offence . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation provide for the meaning of ' place ' in this section . ( 3 ) no offence be commit under this section if the display be a request display to an individual age 18 or over . ( 4 ) subsection ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) apply where a person ( ' d ' ) be charge with an offence under this section in a case where the display be a request display to an individual age under 18 . ( 5 ) where D be charge by reason of d have display the pointed knife it be a defence that — ( a ) D believe that the individual be age 18 or over , and ( b ) either — ( i ) D have take all reasonable step to establish the individual ' s age , or ( ii ) from the individual ' s appearance nobody could reasonably have suspect that the individual be age under 18 . ( 6 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 5 ) , a person be treat as have take all reasonable step to establish an individual ' s age if — ( a ) the person ask the individual for evidence of the individual ' s age , and ( b ) the evidence would have convince a reasonable person . ( 7 ) where D be charge by reason of d have cause the display of a pointed knife it be a defence that D exercise all due diligence to avoid commit the offence . ( 8 ) in this section ' a request display ' mean a display to an individual follow a particular request by the individual to purchase a pointed knife , or for information about a pointed knife . ( 9 ) a person guilty of an offence under this section be liable on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceed twelve month , or a fine not exceed Level 5 on the standard scale or both . ( 10 ) nothing in this section prevent the display of rounded knife without a point . " this new clause would create an offence of display pointed knife in the course of a business . new clause 25 — unauthorised encampment — " the amendment to the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 insert by Part 4 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 be repeal . " this new clause would repeal amendment to the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 in respect of unauthorised encampment , include those on which the High Court have make a Declaration of Incompatibility under section 4 of the Human Rights Act 1998 . new clause 26 — provision of information by the Secretary of State — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must publish , on a quarterly basis , datum on the use of anti - social behaviour order . ( 2 ) the datum publish under subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) the number of civil order issue ; ( b ) the purpose for which such order be issue ; ( c ) information about the number of occasion when stop and search power be utilise by the police prior to issue anti - social behaviour order ; and ( d ) the protect characteristic of person subject to anti - social behaviour order . " this new clause require the Home Office to publish quarterly datum on the issuing of anti - social behaviour order , include the number of occasion when stop and search have be use by the police prior to issue anti - social behaviour order and the protect characteristic of those who have be issue with order . new clause 27 — suspension of Police Force ' s ability to use stop and search power : ' engage ' monitoring stage — " ( 1 ) the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 7 insert — ' 7a suspension of Police Force ' s ability to use stop and search power : ' engage ' monitoring stage ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation , vary the ability of Police Forces in England and Wales to use stop and search power . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , within a fortnight of be notify by his Majesty ' s Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire & Rescue Services ( HMICFRS ) that a police force in England and Wales have be move to the ' engage ' stage of HMICFRS ' s monitoring process , bring forward regulation under subsection ( 1 ) to suspend the respective Force ' s ability to use stop and search power . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may not bring forward regulation to re - instate a suspend Police Force ' s stop and search power until such a time as HMICFRS confirm that the Force be no long subject to the ' engage ' monitoring process . ' " this new clause allow regulation to vary the ability of police force to use stop and search , and require the Government to suspend a police force ' s stop and search power if that force be subject to the ' engage ' monitoring process by his Majesty ' s Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire & Rescue Services . new clause 28 — Disapplication of time limit for offence of share intimate photograph or film — " in section 66B of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 , ( share or threaten to share intimate photograph or film ) , after subsection ( 9 ) insert — ' ( 9a ) section 127 of the Magistrates ' Courts Act 1980 ( time limit for summary offence ) do not apply to an offence under subsection ( 1 ) . ' " this new clause allow the offence of share intimate photograph or film to be try by a Magistrates ' Court at any time by disapplye the six - month time limit in s . 127 of the Magistrates ' Court Act 1980 . new clause 30 — prohibition of Police use of technology to predict offence base on automate decision , profiling , etc — " ( 1 ) Police Forces in England and Wales shall be prohibit from use any automate decision - make system , profiling or artificial intelligence system for the purpose of — ( a ) make risk assessment of natural person or group thereof in order to assess the risk of a natural person for offend or reoffende ; or ( b ) predict the occurrence or reoccurrence of an actual or potential criminal offence base on profiling of a natural person or on assess personality trait and characteristic , include the person ' s location , or past criminal behaviour of natural person or group of natural person . ( 2 ) ' profiling ' be profiling as define by article 4 ( 4 ) of the Regulation ( EU ) 2016 / 679 of the European Parliament and of the Council ( ' the UK GDPR ' ) . ( 3 ) Automated Decision Making mean a decision base solely on automate processing , include profiling , which produce legal effect concern he or her or similarly significantly affect he or she . ( 4 ) Artificial Intelligence system be computer system design to produce result , opinion or assessment , produce through modelling from dataset and other automate training method . " this new clause would prohibit Police Forces from use of certain form of ' predictive ' policing technology , particularly those that rely on automate decision - making , profiling , and AI to assess the likelihood that individual or group will commit criminal offence . new clause 41 — inspection of police force firearm license department — " ( 1 ) the Police Act 1996 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 54 ( appointment and function of inspector of constabulary ) , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 2A ) any inspection conduct under subsection ( 2 ) shall include a review of the performance of the police force ' s firearm license department . ' " this new clause would require HM Inspectorate of Constabulary ( HMICFRS ) to inspect the efficiency and effectiveness of police force ' s firearm license department as part of every police , efficiency , effectiveness and legitimacy ( PEEL ) inspection . new clause 42 — offence with a terrorism connection — " ( 1 ) the Sentencing Act 2020 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 69 , omit subsection ( 4 ) . " this new clause would raise the threshold of offence which can be consider as terrorism relate offence back to the level provide for by the Sentencing Act 2020 as originally enact . new clause 43 — Commencement of the Protection from Sex - base Harassment in Public Act — " ( 1 ) section 4 of the Protection from Sex - base Harassment in Public Act 2023 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) leave out subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) and insert — ' ( 3 ) section 1 , 2 and 3 come into force on the day that the Crime and Policing Act 2025 receive Royal Assent ' . " this new clause automatically commence protection from Sex - base Harassment in Public Act 2023 when the Crime and Policing Bill receive Royal Assent , remove the need for regulation to bring the Act into force . the Act criminalise the public harassment of individual where that harassment be base on an individual ' s sex . new clause 44 — sentencing : " honour " - base offence : — " ( 1 ) the Sentencing Act 2020 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in Schedule 21 , after paragraph 9 ( g ) insert — ' ( h ) the fact that the offender inflict " honour " - base abuse on the victim . ' ( 3 ) in Schedule 21 , after paragraph 10 ( g ) insert — ' ( h ) the fact that the offender be a victim of " honour " - base abuse perpetrate by the deceased . ' " this new clause would modify the Sentencing Act 2020 to recognise ' " honour " as an aggravating factor under paragraph 9 and as a mitigate factor under paragraph 10 . new clause 45 — disclosure of conviction for child sexual offence — " ( 1 ) this section apply where a police force be aware or notify of an individual within its jurisdiction who have be caution or convict of a child sex offence . ( 2 ) a police force must notify any organisation that have responsibility for a child ' s welfare where an individual identify under subsection ( 1 ) be employ by or volunteer for that organisation , or be seek to do so . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must issue guidance to police force on their duty under subsection ( 2 ) within six month of the passing of this Act . " this new clause would require police force to proactively notify an organisation of an individual working or volunteer for it , or seek to do so , where that individual have be caution or convict of a child sex offence . new clause 46 — requirement on seller of vehicle to provide specified information — " ( 1 ) the Road Vehicle ( registration and Licensing ) Regulations 2002 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after regulation 18 , insert — ' requirement on seller of vehicle to provide specified information ( 1 ) where a keeper sell a vehicle , the keeper must record relevant information in the registration document of the vehicle at , or before , the date on which the vehicle be sell to a new keeper . ( 2 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , the relevant information be — ( a ) where the keeper be an individual , the home address of the keeper , ( b ) where the keeper be a company , information which the Secretary of State may specify , and ( c ) where the keeper be the keeper of a fleet , information equivalent to that require in paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) as relevant to the circumstance of the keeper . ' ( 3 ) the information the Secretary of State may specify under paragraph ( 2 ) ( b ) may include the company ' s register address and company number . ( 4 ) a keeper who fail to record relevant information in accordance with this regulation commit an offence . ( 5 ) a person who be guilty of an offence under this regulation be liable for a fine not exceed level 3 on the standard scale . ( 6 ) for the purpose of this regulation ' company ' have such meaning as the Secretary of State may specify . " this new clause would create a requirement for a person sell a vehicle to provide their address in the registration document of the vehicle . new clause 47 — failure to disable steal mobile device : civil penalty — " ( 1 ) an appropriate officer must provide the relevant service provider with a notification of a steal mobile device . ( 2 ) a notification under subsection ( 1 ) must — ( a ) identify the steal device or service provide to the device ; ( b ) require the service provider to disable the steal device or take action to prevent it from be re - registered ; ( c ) explain that the notification must be comply with before the end of a period of 48 hour begin with the time the notification be give ; and ( d ) set out the potential consequence of failure to comply with the notification . ( 3 ) a service provider who be give a notification under subsection ( 1 ) may , before the end of the initial 48 - hour period , request a review of the decision to give the notification . ( 4 ) the ground on which a recipient may request a review include , in particular , that — ( a ) the device to which the notification relate be insufficiently identify for the service provider to be able to take the action require by the notification ; or ( b ) the service provider that receive the notice be not , in fact , the provider of the relevant service to which the notification relate . ( 5 ) if the initial 48 - hour period have expire without the notification have be comply with or without a review request have be receive , an appropriate officer may give a penalty notice require the service provider to pay a penalty of an amount not exceed £ 10 , 000 . ( 6 ) schedule 4 make further provision in connection with penalty notice give under this section . ( 7 ) in this section — ' appropriate officer ' have the same meaning as in Schedule 13 , paragraph 14 ' service provider ' mean a provider of a relevant mobile phone service . ( 8 ) in Schedule 4 , after all instance of ' section 16 ' , insert ' section ( failure to disable steal mobile device : civil penalty ) ' . " this new clause would require the police to issue notification to service provider require they to disable steal mobile device within 48 hour or be issue with a penalty . new clause 48 — assault on a delivery worker — " ( 1 ) a person who assault a delivery person in connection with a delivery commit an offence under this section . ( 2 ) ' delivery person ' mean a person who — ( a ) be log into a delivery app , ( b ) be travel to a location to collect good for delivery , ( c ) be at a location wait for , or take possession of , good for delivery , ( d ) be travel to deliver those good to another location , ( e ) be deliver those good to another location , ( f ) be within an hour of have deliver those good to another location , or ( g ) have commence travel to another location . ( 3 ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceed the maximum term for summary offence or a fine ( or both ) . ( 4 ) in subsection ( 3 ) ' the maximum term for summary offence ' mean — ( a ) if the offence be commit before the time when section 281 ( 5 ) of the Criminal Justice Act ( alteration of penalty for certain summary offence : England and Wales ) come into force , 6 month ; ( b ) if the offence be commit after that time , 51 week . ( 5 ) in section 40 ( 3 ) of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 ( power to join in indictment count for common assault etc ) , after paragraph ( ad ) insert — ' ( ae ) an offence under section ( assault on a delivery worker ) of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 ; ' " . this new clause would create an offence of assault on a delivery worker . new clause 49 — definition of serious disruption : amendment — " ( 1 ) the Public Order Act 2023 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) Omit Section 34 . " this new clause would restore the previous threshold for serious protest disruption by remove the wording in the Public Order Act which define it to mean any obstruction that cause ' more than minor hindrance ' to day to day activity . new clause 50 — right to protest — " ( 1 ) the Public Order Act 1986 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in Part II ( Processions and Assemblies ) before section 11 , insert — ' 10a the right to protest ( 1 ) everyone have the right to engage in peaceful protest , both alone and with other . ( 2 ) public authority have a duty to — ( a ) respect the right to protest ; ( b ) protect the right to protest ; and ( c ) facilitate the right to protest . ( 3 ) a public authority may only interfere with the right to protest , include by place restriction upon its exercise , when it be necessary and proportionate to do so to protect national security or public safety , prevent disorder or crime , protect public health or the right and freedom of other . ( 4 ) for the purpose of this section " public authority " have the same meaning as in section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998 . ' " new clause 51 — cause death while drive unlicensed or uninsured — " ( 1 ) the Road Traffic Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 2A ( meaning of dangerous driving ) , at the end of subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) insert ' , or ( c ) at the time when they be drive , the circumstance be such that they be commit an offence under section 87 ( 1 ) of this Act ( drive otherwise than in accordance with a licence ) , or section 143 of this Act ( use motor vehicle while uninsured ) . ' ( 3 ) omit section 3zb . " this new clause would mean that an individual who be drive without a licence and / or insurance and cause a death would be consider as cause death by dangerous driving . new clause 83 — Prevention of resale of steal GPS product — " ( 1 ) the Equipment Theft Act 2023 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 1 ( 2 ) ( b ) , after ' commercial activity ' insert , ' include GPS equipment ' . " this new clause extend the Equipment Theft Act 2023 to specifically include the theft of gps equipment . new clause 84 — Rural Crime Prevention Strategy — " ( 1 ) a day after this Act receive Royal Assent , the Secretary of State must establish a rural crime prevention task force to develop proposal for tackle rural crime . ( 2 ) the task force should be task with a remit that include , but be not confine to , examine — ( a ) the particular type of crime that occur in rural area ; ( b ) crime rate in rural community across England and Wales ; ( c ) the current level of police resource and funding in rural community ; ( d ) whether specific training in how to respond to rural crime call - out should be undertake by police control room operator ; ( e ) the operational case , and the funding implication , of appoint rural crime specialist in Police Forces across England and Wales which serve area that include a significant rural population ; and ( f ) whether a National Rural Crime Coordinator should be establish ( 3 ) the task force establish under subsection ( 1 ) must submit a rural crime prevention strategy to the Secretary of State within six month of its appointment . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must , within a month of receive the report make by the task force , lie before both Houses of Parliament a write response to the task force ' s recommendation . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must , within a month of lay their response to the task force ' s report , ensure that an amendable motion on the subject of the rural crime task force ' s recommendation be lay , and move , before both Houses of Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to establish a task force to produce a strategy for tackle rural crime , make provision for specific aspect of the task force ' s remit , and require the Secretary of State to bring forward a substantive motion before both Houses of Parliament on the task force ' s recommendation . new clause 85 — Neighbourhood policing : minimum level — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must lay before both Houses of Parliament proposal on maintain minimum level of neighbourhood police . ( 2 ) the proposal must include — ( a ) a requirement for every Police Force in England and Wales to maintain neighbourhood police team at a level necessary to ensure effective community engagement and crime prevention ; ( b ) a plan to designate a proportion of fund , recover under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 , for neighbourhood police initiative ; and ( c ) a plan for future Police Grant Reports to include a ring - fence allocation of 20 % of total fund to be allocate specifically for neighbourhood police . " new clause 86 — Neighbourhood policing — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that every local authority area in England and Wales have a neighbourhood police team must be assign exclusively to community - base duty , include : ( a ) high - visibility foot patrol ; ( b ) community engagement and intelligence gathering ; ( c ) crime prevention initiative ; and ( d ) solve crime . ( 2 ) the Home Office must publish proposal detail the additional funding that will be require to ensure that police force can meet these requirement without reduce officer number in other frontline policing role . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must publish an annual report detail : ( a ) the number of officer and pcso deploy in neighbourhood policing role ; ( b ) the total cost of maintain the require level ; and ( c ) the impact on crime reduction and public confidence in policing . ( 4 ) if a police force fail to meet the minimum staffing level require under subsection ( 1 ) , the Home Office must intervene and provide emergency funding to ensure compliance within six month . " new clause 87 — offence of fail to meet pollution performance commitment level — " ( 1 ) a water or water and sewerage company ( ' c ' ) commit an offence where C have — ( a ) fail to meet its pollution performance commitment level for three consecutive year ; or ( b ) experience an increase in serious pollution level for three consecutive year . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) ' water or water and sewerage company ' mean company which be responsible for the provision of water , or water and sewerage , service and which be regulate by Ofwat and the Environment Agency ; ( b ) ' pollution performance commitment level ' mean the level of performance on pollution that the company have commit to deliver , and which be report against by Ofwat in its annual water company performance report ; and ( c ) ' total pollution incident per 10 , 000km2 ' and ' serious pollution incident ' mean the relevant figure under those heading report by the Environment Agency in its annual environmental performance report . ( 3 ) if guilty of an offence under this section , C be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to a fine ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to a fine . " this new clause create an offence of fail to meet pollution performance commitment level . new clause 88 — senior manager liability for failure to meet pollution performance commitment level — " ( 1 ) a person ( ' p ' ) commit an offence where — ( a ) p be a senior manager of a water or water and sewerage company ( ' c ' ) , ( b ) c commit an offence under section [ offence of fail to meet pollution performance commitment level ] , and ( c ) p have fail to take all reasonable step to prevent that offence be commit by C . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section — ' senior manager ' mean an individual who play a significant role in — ( a ) the making of decision about how C ' s relevant activity be to be manage or organise , or ( b ) the actual managing or organising of c ' s relevant activity ; ( 3 ) where p be charge with an offence under this section , it be a defence for p to show that p be a senior manager of C for such a short time during the relevant period that p could not reasonably have be expect to take step to prevent that offence be commit by C . ( 4 ) where p be guilty of an offence under this section , p be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to a fine ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to a fine . " this new clause create senior manager liability for failure to meet pollution performance commitment level . new clause 89 — duty of candour — " ( 1 ) every police officer shall have a duty to act with candour and transparency in relation to — ( a ) the investigation of criminal offence ; ( b ) the investigation of misconduct or complaint involve the police ; ( c ) participation in any public inquiry , inqu , disciplinary proceeding , or legal process arise from their duty ; ( d ) any engagement with body exercise oversight of policing or the criminal justice system . ( 2 ) this duty shall apply regardless of whether the officer be directly the subject of the matter in question or be provide evidence as a witness . ( 3 ) the duty include an obligation to — ( a ) disclose any information which the officer know or reasonably believe to be relevant ; ( b ) disclose such information proactively and not solely in response to formal request ; ( c ) refrain from withholding or distort relevant fact , whether by act or omission . ( 4 ) failure to comply with the duty of candour shall — ( a ) constitute misconduct for the purpose of police disciplinary procedure ; ( b ) amount to gross misconduct where the breach be intentional or demonstrate reckless disregard for the truth ; ( c ) be subject to mandatory referral to the Independent Office for Police Conduct . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State shall , within six month of this Act come into force , issue statutory guidance on the implementation of the duty of candour . ( 6 ) the College of Policing shall include the duty of candour within the Code of Ethics and ensure its incorporation into training programme . ( 7 ) the Independent Office for Police Conduct shall report annually to Parliament on the application , enforcement , and impact of this duty . ( 8 ) for the purpose of this section , ' police officer ' mean — ( a ) any constable or member of a police force in England and Wales ; ( b ) any special constable ; ( c ) any former officer where the conduct in question occur during their service . " new clause 90 — mandatory mental health training for police officer — " ( 1 ) every police force in England and Wales must ensure that all frontline police officer receive regular training in deal with incident involve individual experience mental health crisis . ( 2 ) the training provide under subsection ( 1 ) must — ( a ) be develop and deliver in consultation with NHS mental health trust , clinical commission group , and other relevant health and social care body ; ( b ) reflect the principle of the Right Care , Right Person ( RCRP ) approach ; ( c ) include instruction in de - escalation technique , legal obligation under the Mental Health Act 1983 , communication with vulnerable person , and referral pathway to appropriate healthcare service ; and ( d ) be trauma - inform and culturally competent . ( 3 ) initial training must be complete within six month of an officer ' s commencement of frontline duty . ( 4 ) Refresher training must be undertake at least once every two year . ( 5 ) each police force must publish an annual statement on compliance with this section , include the number of officer train and step take to evaluate the effectiveness of the training . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision for — ( a ) minimum standard for training content and delivery ; ( b ) procedure for monitoring and enforcement ; and ( c ) sanction for non - compliance . ( 7 ) regulation under this section must be make by statutory instrument and be subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament . " new clause 91 — right to protest : report on restriction — " ( 1 ) within six month of this Act receive Royal Assent , the Secretary of State must lay before both Houses of Parliament a report on the restriction which have be make to the right to protest over the last ten year . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must ensure that within a month of the report produce under subsection ( 1 ) be publish , time be make available for a debate on a substantive motion in both Houses of Parliament . " new clause 92 — safeguard for the use of facial recognition technology in public space — " ( 1 ) the use of live facial recognition technology for real - time biometric identification , by any public or private authority , shall be prohibit unless one or more of the follow condition be meet — ( a ) it be use for the purpose of prevent , detect , or investigate serious crime as define under the Serious Crime Act 2007 ; ( b ) the deployment have receive prior judicial authorization specify the scope , duration , and purpose of its use ; ( c ) it be necessary and proportionate for prevent an imminent and substantial threat to public safety , such as a terrorist attack ; and ( d ) it be deploy for the purpose of locate miss person or vulnerable individual at risk . ( 2 ) any public authority deploy live facial recognition technology must : ( a ) conduct and publish a Data Protection Impact Assessment before deployment ; ( b ) ensure that use be compliant with the principle of necessity and proportionality as outline in the Human Rights Act 1998 ; ( c ) maintain clear and publicly available record of deployment , include justification for use and any safeguard implement ; ( d ) inform the public of deployment , unless exceptional circumstance apply ; and ( e ) create , implement and follow nationwide statutory guidance for use the technology . ( 3 ) the use of live facial recognition technology for mass surveillance , profiling , or automate decision - making without human oversight , be an offence . ( 4 ) the Information Commissioner ' s Office and an independent oversight body shall be responsible for monitor compliance with the provision of this clause , conduct audits , and investigate complaint . ( 5 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must sure that a motion be table , and move , before both Houses of Parliament to approve the appointment of the independent oversight body specify in subsection ( 5 ) . ( 6 ) a public authority or private entity guilty of an offence under this section will be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to a fine ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to a fine ( 7 ) a private individual find guilty of an offence under this section will be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to a fine ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to a fine or imprisonment ( or both ) . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State must lay before both Houses of Parliament an annual report detail the use of live facial recognition technology , include instance of authorisation and compliance measure undertake , and ensure that a motion be table , and move , before both house to approve the report . ( 9 ) the motion specify in subsection ( 9 ) must include proposal to strengthen the role of the Office of the Biometrics and Surveillance Camera Commissioner ( OBSCC ) in oversee the impact of emerge technology such as facial recognition and its impact on civil liberty . " new clause 93 — right to peaceful protest — " ( 1 ) it be the duty of public authority , include police force , to respect and facilitate the exercise of the right to peaceful protest in accordance with Articles 10 and 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights . ( 2 ) a person ' s presence at , or participation in , a peaceful protest — ( a ) must not , of itself , be treat as ground for arrest or the use of force ; and ( b ) must not be subject to unnecessary or disproportionate restriction . ( 3 ) in exercise power under this Act or any other enactment , a constable must have regard to the importance of — ( a ) enable peaceful protest to take place ; and ( b ) minimise interference with the right of those engage in peaceful protest . ( 4 ) this section do not prevent a constable from impose condition on a protest or take enforcement action where necessary and proportionate to prevent — ( a ) serious disruption to the life of the community ; ( b ) serious public disorder ; ( c ) serious damage to property ; or ( d ) the commission of serious crime . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must issue guidance on the application of this section within six month of the passing of this Act . " new clause 95 — offence of stalking : review — " ( 1 ) within six month of this Act receive Royal Assent , the Secretary of State must establish a review into the effectiveness of Sections 2A and 4A of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 . ( 2 ) the review establish under subsection ( 1 ) must complete its work within nine month of its establishment . ( 3 ) within a month of the review submit its final report , the Secretary of State must lay a copy of the report before both Houses of Parliament and make time available in both Houses for a debate on a substantive motion relate to the report . " this new clause would require the Government to establish a review into the effectiveness of the stalk provision of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 , specify the review ' s timeframe , and require the Government to make time available in both Houses of Parliament for a substantive debate on the review ' s report . new clause 96 — stalk awareness guideline : review — " ( 1 ) within six month of this Act receive Royal Assent , the Secretary of State must establish a review into the effectiveness and adequacy of stalk awareness guidance provide by public body in England and Wales . ( 2 ) the term of reference for this review should include examine whether stalk awareness guidance should form part of the national curriculum in England . ( 3 ) within a month of the review submit its final report , the Secretary of State must lay a copy of the report before both Houses of Parliament and make time available in both Houses for a debate on a substantive motion relate to the report . " this new clause would require the Government to establish a review into the effectiveness of the stalk awareness guidance provide by public body , specify that the review should examine make stalk awareness guidance mandatory under the national curriculum , and provide for a substantive debate in Parliament on the review ' s report . new clause 97 — electronic search under Schedule 7 of the Terrorism Act 2000 — " ( 1 ) the Terrorism Act 2000 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in Schedule 7 , after paragraph 8 insert — 8a ' ( 1 ) an examine officer may not search any electronic device under paragraph 8 ( 1 ) without the prior authorisation of a judge , unless the examine officer have reasonable ground to believe that the device contain information necessary to prevent — ( a ) an emergency threaten the life of a person or person , or ( b ) an immediate threat to national security . ( 2 ) an examine officer may seek the prior authorisation of a judge to engage in conduct which be for the purpose of obtain datum necessary for the purpose of determine whether the person fall within section 40 ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) authorise conduct may consist of an officer — ( a ) scan the information store on the device use technology approve by the Secretary of State for the purpose of ascertain whether someone fall within section 40 ( 1 ) , ( b ) require the person to permit the scan , and ( c ) require the person to take such step as appear necessary to allow the scan to be perform . ' " this new clause place safeguard on the search of electronic device to ensure these be conduct only when necessary to determine whether the person be a relevant person for the purpose of the Terrorism Act 2000 . new clause 98 — Use of Prevent datum — " in the Counter - Terrorism and Security Act 2015 , after section 33 insert — ' 33a duty to obtain authorisation for use of Prevent datum ( 1 ) this section apply where a specify authority use information collect under the Prevent duty for criminal investigation , national security or any other purpose unrelated to compliance with the general duty under section 26 . ( 2 ) where this section apply , a specify authority must seek the prior authorisation of a judge for the use of the information , except where do so would prevent the authority from address — ( a ) an emergency threaten the life of a person or person , or ( b ) an immediate threat to national security . ( 3 ) a specify authority which use information under paragraph 2 ( a ) or ( b ) must seek a review of its use from a judge at its early convenience and no later than a week after the use . ( 4 ) a specify authority be a person or body list in Schedule 6 . ' " this new clause would require specified user to seek the approval of a judge prior to use datum collect under the Prevent duty , except where there be an emergency or immediate threat . if datum be use in urgent situation , a judge must review it within a week . new clause 99 — universal jurisdiction over the crime of genocide , crime against humanity and war crime , and ancillary conduct ( England and Wales ) — " ( 1 ) the International Criminal Court Act 2001 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 51 ( 1 ) — ( a ) after ' person ' , insert ' , whatever his or her nationality , ' ( b ) after ' war crime ' , insert ' in the United Kingdom or elsewhere . ' ( 3 ) omit section 51 ( 2 ) . ( 4 ) in section 52 ( 1 ) — ( a ) after ' person ' , insert ' , whatever his or her nationality , ' ( b ) after ' conduct ' , insert ' in the United Kingdom or elsewhere . ' ( 5 ) omit section 52 ( 4 ) . " this new clause would amend the ICC Act 2001 to provide for the exercise of universal jurisdiction over the crime of genocide , crime against humanity and war crime , and ancillary conduct , allow authority in England and Wales to prosecute person suspect of these crime without any requirement for a connection to the UK . new clause 100 — universal jurisdiction over the crime of genocide , crime against humanity and war crime , and ancillary conduct ( Northern Ireland ) — " ( 1 ) the International Criminal Court Act 2001 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 58 ( 1 ) — ( a ) after ' person ' , insert ' , whatever his or her nationality , ' ( b ) after ' war crime ' , insert ' in the United Kingdom or elsewhere . ' ( 3 ) omit section 58 ( 2 ) . ( 4 ) in section 59 ( 1 ) — ( a ) after ' person ' , insert ' , whatever his or her nationality , ' ( b ) after ' conduct ' , insert ' in the United Kingdom or elsewhere . ' ( 5 ) omit section 59 ( 4 ) . " this new clause would amend the ICC Act 2001 to provide for the exercise of universal jurisdiction over the crime of genocide , crime against humanity and war crime , and ancillary conduct , allow authority in Northern Ireland to prosecute person suspect of these crime without any requirement for a connection to the UK . new clause 101 — Threshold for offence to be consider as terrorism - relate : review — " ( 1 ) within six month of this Act receive Royal Assent , the Secretary of State must establish a review into the effect of the raising of the threshold of offence which can be consider as terrorism relate offence by the Counter Terrorism and Sentencing Act 2021 . ( 2 ) the review specify in subsection ( 1 ) must report within nine month of its establishment and its final report must be lay before both Houses of Parliament , and time make available for a debate on a substantive motion in both Houses of Parliament on the report ' s conclusion , within a month of the report ' s publication . " new clause 102 — Amendment of Possession of extreme pornographic image — " ( 1 ) the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 63 subsection ( 7 ) ( possession of extreme pornographic image ) after paragraph ( a ) insert — ( aa ) an act of choke , suffocate or strangle another person . " this amendment would extend the definition of extreme pornographic image to cover realistic and explicit pornographic depiction of act of strangulation / choking . new clause 103 — pornographic content : online harmful content — " ( 1 ) a person commit an offence if they publish or allow or facilitate the publishing of pornographic content online which meet the criterion for harmful material under section 368E ( 3 ) ( a ) and section 368E ( 3 ) ( b ) of the Communications Act 2003 . ( 2 ) an individual guilty of an offence be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed six month or a fine not exceed the statutory maximum ( or both ) ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed two year or a fine or both . ( 3 ) a person who be a UK national commit an offence under this section regardless of where the offence take place . ( 4 ) a person who be not a UK national commit an offence under this section if any part of the offence take place in the UK . ( 5 ) the platform on which material that violate the provision in this section be publish can be fine up to £ 18 million or 10 percent of their qualifying worldwide revenue , whichever be great . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the Act receive Royal Assent , make regulation appoint one or more public body ( the appoint body ) to monitor and enforce compliance by online platform with this section . ( 7 ) regulation make under subsection 6 may provide the appoint body appoint by the Secretary of State with the power , contain in section 144 and 146 of the Online Safety Act 2023 , to apply to the court for a Service Restriction Order or Access Restriction Order ( or both ) . ( 8 ) the appoint body must , within six month of be appoint by the Secretary of State , lie before Parliament a strategy for monitoring , and enforce , compliance with the provision in this section . ( 9 ) the appoint body must lay before Parliament an annual report , outline the enforcement activity undertake in relation to this section . " this new clause extend safeguard requirement for pornography distribute offline to pornography distribute online , make it an offence to publish online harmful material under section 368E ( 3 ) ( a ) and section 368E ( 3 ) ( b ) of the Communications Act 2003 . new clause 104 — Pornographic Content : duty to safeguard against illegal content — " ( 1 ) the Online Safety Act be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 80 ( 1 ) , after ' service ' insert ' and the illegal content duty outline in Part 3 of this Act . ' " this new clause extend the illegal content duty in Part 3 of the Act to all internet service which be subject to the regulated provider pornographic content duty in Part 5 of the Act . new clause 105 — Pornographic Content : duty to verify age — " ( 1 ) a person ( a ) commit an offence if they publish or allow or facilitate the publishing of pornographic content online where it have not be verify that — ( a ) every individual feature in pornographic content on the platform have give their consent for the content in which they feature to be publish or make available by the service ; and / or ( b ) every individual feature in pornographic content on the platform have be verify as an adult , and that age verification complete before the content be create and before it be publish on the service ; and / or ( c ) every individual feature in pornographic content on the platform , that have already publish on the service when this Act be pass , be an adult . ( 2 ) it be irrelevant under ( 1a ) whether the individual feature in pornographic material have previously give their consent to the relevant content be publish , if they have subsequently withdraw that consent in write either directly or via an appoint legal representative to — ( a ) the platform , or ( b ) the relevant regulator where a contact address be not provide by the platform to receive external communication . ( 3 ) if withdrawal of consent under ( 2 ) have be communicate in write to an address issue by the platform or to the relevant public body , the relevant material must be remove by the platform within 24 hour of the communication be send . ( 4 ) an individual guilty of an offence be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed six month or a fine not exceed the statutory maximum ( or both ) ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed two year or a fine ( or both ) . ( 5 ) a person who be a UK national commit an offence under this section regardless of where the offence take place . ( 6 ) a person who be not a UK national commit an offence under this section if any part of the offence take place in the UK . ( 7 ) the platform on which material that violate the provision in this section be publish can be fine up to £ 18 million or 10 percent of their qualifying worldwide revenue , whichever be great . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State will appoint one or more public body to monitor and enforce compliance by online platform with this section , with the relevant public body — ( a ) grant power to impose business disruption measure on non - compliant online platform , include but not limit to service restriction ( impose requirement on one or more person who provide an ancillary service , whether from within or outside the United Kingdom , in relation to a regulated service ) ; and access restriction ( impose requirement on one or more person who provide an access facility , whether from within or outside the United Kingdom , in relation to a regulated service ) . ( b ) require to act in accordance with regulation relate to monitoring and enforcement of this section issue by the Secretary of State , include but not limit to provide the Secretary of State with a plan for monitoring and enforcement of the provision in this section within six month of the bill enter into force , and publish annual update on enforcement activity relate to this section . ( 9 ) internet service host pornographic content must make and keep a write record outline their compliance with the provision of this section . such a record must be make summarise in a publicly available statement alongside the publishing requirement in section 81 ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) of the Online Safety Act . " this new clause make it a requirement for pornography website to verify the age and permission of everyone feature on their site , and enable withdrawal of consent at any time . new clause 107 — equality Impact Analyses of provision of this Act — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must review the equality impact of the provision of this Act . ( 2 ) a report of the review under this section must be lay before Parliament within 12 month of the date of Royal Assent to this Act . ( 3 ) a review under this section must consider the impact of the provision of this Act on — ( a ) household at different level of income , ( b ) people with protect characteristic ( within the meaning of the Equality Act 2010 ) , ( c ) the Government ' s compliance with the public sector equality duty under section 149 of the Equality Act 2010 , and ( d ) equality in the different nation of the United Kingdom and different region of England . ( 4 ) a review under this section must include a separate analysis of each section of the Act , and must also consider the cumulative impact of the Act as a whole . " new clause 108 — extension of freedom of expression — " for section 29j of the Public Order Act 1986 ( protection of freedom of expression ) , substitute — ' nothing in — ( a ) this Act ; ( b ) section 1 of the Malicious Communications Act 1988 ( offence of send letter etc . with the intent to cause distress or anxiety ) ; and ( c ) section 127 of the Communications Act 2003 ( improper use of public communication network ) shall be read or give effect in a way which prohibit or restrict discussion , criticism or expression of antipathy , dislike , ridicule , insult or abuse of particular religion or the belief or practice of their adherent , or of any other belief system or the belief or practice of its adherent , or proselytising or urge adherent of a different religion or belief system to cease practise their religion or belief system . ' " this new clause would extend the protection of freedom of expression afford to Part 3A of the Public Order Act 1986 to other area of statute that create offence relate to speech or communication . new clause 109 — Review of compliance and enforcement mechanism in relation to Police Forces — " ( 1 ) within six month of this Act receive Royal Assent , the Secretary of State must publish a proposal for approval by the House of Commons on the establishment of an independent commission to investigate the enforcement power of his Majesty ' s Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire and Rescue Services ( HMICFRS ) . ( 2 ) the proposal for an independent commission must include a term of reference , which must include , but may not be limit to — ( a ) a review of the power available to other independent regulatory and investigative body , such as Ofqual , the Care Quality Commission , the Financial Conduct Authority , and Ofsted ; ( b ) the lesson learn from other regulatory body with strong enforcement power ; and ( c ) an examination of whether a statutory framework of coordination between HMICFRS , the Independent Office for Police Conduct , and Police and Crime Commissioners , could enhance the enforcement power available to all three set of body and the accountability of police in England and Wales . ( 3 ) the proposal for an independent commission must set out a timetable for its work include that — ( a ) the commission should conclude its deliberation within nine month of its establishment , and ( b ) the Secretary of State must lay a copy of the report before both Houses of Parliament and ensure that time be make available , within a fortnight of the report be lay , in both Houses for a substantive debate on the report ' s conclusion . " this new clause would require the Government to publish a proposal for an independent commission for approval by the House of Commons to review the enforcement power of his Majesty ' s Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire and Rescue Services ( HMICFRS ) , include consideration of a statutory framework to enhance the collective enforcement power of body supervise Police Forces in England and Wales . new clause 110 — requirement to bring forward proposal for an inquiry on the exploitation of child by organise network — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must within 3 month of the passing of this Act publish proposal for approval by the House of Commons for the establishment of an inquiry , include the appointment of member of any such inquiry in accordance with section [ proposal for an inquiry : appointment of inquiry panel member ] . ( 2 ) the term of reference contain in the proposal refer to in subsection ( 1 ) must include , but may not be limit to — ( a ) investigation of the nature and extent of sexual exploitation of child by organise network , include — ( i ) the experience of victim and survivor of child sexual exploitation by organise network , ( ii ) the extent to which local authority , law enforcement agency , the judiciary and other public authority be aware of child sexual exploitation by organise network in their area , ( iii ) the appropriateness and effectiveness of any response of those public authority to case of child sexual exploitation , include the effectiveness of sentencing or sentence serve for offence involve child sexual exploitation by organise network , ( iv ) the extent to which public authority have cooperate with previous inquiry and investigation into case of child sexual exploitation in their area , ( v ) any organisational or individual responsibility for not respond effectively to case of child sexual exploitation , ( vi ) identification of common pattern of behaviour and offending between organise network , ( vii ) identification of the type , extent and volume of crime commit by organise network include the number of victim of those crime , ( viii ) identification of the ethnicity of member of organise network , and ( b ) recommendation about legislative , policy and institutional change to prevent child sexual exploitation in the future . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State ' s proposal must stipulate that any inquiry should conclude within 18 month of the passing of this Act , and report to the Secretary of State within 3 month of concluding . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State ' s proposal may make provision for the issuing of such interim report as the chair of any inquiry consider to be appropriate . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State ' s proposal may make provision for supplement the term of reference of any inquiry after consultation with the chair , but may not omit , modify , or otherwise adversely affect any of the term of reference set out in subsection ( 2 ) . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to bring forward proposal for set up an inquiry on the exploitation of child by organise network for approval by the House of Commons . new clause 111 — proposal for an inquiry : appointment of inquiry panel member — " ( 1 ) the inquiry proposal bring forward by the Secretary of State under section [ requirement to bring forward proposal for an inquiry on the exploitation of child by organise network ] must make provision for any inquiry to be oversee by a chair and inquiry panel appoint by the Secretary of State . ( 2 ) the inquiry proposal must require the prospective chair to have senior experience of and expertise in the successful investigation of serious offence and that the person do not have a conflict of interest in the subject matter of the inquiry . ( 3 ) the inquiry proposal must make provision for the chair to appoint one or more person to act as assessor to assist the inquiry panel and may at any time terminate the appointment of an assessor . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State ' s proposal for an inquiry relate to the sexual exploitation of child by organise network under NC10 to make provision for the appointment of a chair and inquiry panel member . new clause 112 — proposal for an inquiry : inquiry evidence and procedure — " ( 1 ) the inquiry proposal bring forward by the Secretary of State under section [ requirement to bring forward proposal for an inquiry on the exploitation of child by organise network ] must make provision for the procedure and conduct of any inquiry to be such as the chair may direct . ( 2 ) the inquiry proposal must require the chair , in make any decision as to the procedure or conduct of any inquiry to act in a manner which be consistent with the term of reference and — ( a ) fairness , ( b ) regard to the need for a detailed investigation of the issue before the inquiry , ( c ) regard to the need to conclude the inquiry within the period set in the term of reference , and ( d ) regard to the need to avoid unnecessary cost ( whether to public fund or to witness or other ) . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State ' s proposal for an inquiry relate to the sexual exploitation of child by organise network to require the chair to make provision for the procedure of that inquiry . new clause 113 — proposal for an inquiry : requirement for public access to inquiry proceeding and information — " ( 1 ) the inquiry proposal bring forward by the Secretary of State under section [ requirement to bring forward proposal for an inquiry on the exploitation of child by organise network ] must make provision for the chair of any inquiry to take step to secure that member of the public ( include reporter ) be able to — ( a ) attend a hearing of the inquiry , ( b ) see and hear a simultaneous transmission of proceeding at the inquiry , and ( c ) obtain or to view a record of evidence and document give , produce or provide to the inquiry or inquiry panel , subject to any restriction impose by an order under section [ proposal for an inquiry : restriction on public access etc ] . ( 2 ) the inquiry proposal bring forward by the Secretary of State under section [ requirement to bring forward proposal for an inquiry on the exploitation of child by organise network ] must make provision for record ( include transcript of the proceeding ) of any inquiry to be hold for a period of 10 year , and to be make available on a website maintain by the Secretary of State , subject to any restriction impose under section [ proposal for an inquiry : inquiry restriction on public access etc ] , " this new clause would enable the chair of any inquiry propose by the Secretary of State relate to the sexual exploitation of child by organise network to make provision for public access to that inquiry . new clause 114 — proposal for an inquiry : inquiry restriction on public access etc — " ( 1 ) the inquiry proposal bring forward by the Secretary of State under section [ requirement to bring forward proposal for an inquiry on the exploitation of child by organise network ] must make provision on restriction that may , in accordance with this section , be impose on — ( a ) attendance at any inquiry establish follow approval by the House of Commons , or at any particular part of the inquiry , ( b ) the disclosure or publication of any , or part of , evidence or document give , produce or provide to the inquiry ( include the simultaneous transmission of proceeding at the inquiry ) , and ( c ) disclosure or publication of the identity of any person . ( 2 ) restriction make under subsection ( 1 ) may be impose by be specify in an order ( a ' restriction order ' ) make by the chair during the course of the inquiry ( 3 ) a restriction order must , have regard to the matter in subsection ( 4 ) , specify only such restriction require by any express statutory provision , assimilate enforcement obligation , or for national security purpose , or which otherwise protect — ( a ) a victim or a whistle - blower , ( b ) the identity of an individual authorise for the conduct or the use of a covert human intelligence source except where that person be accuse of an offence and the chair consider it to be conducive to the inquiry in fulfil its term of reference , or ( c ) a matter which the chair consider to be in the public interest provide that this do not affect the inquiry fulfil its term of reference . ( 4 ) the matter refer to in subsection ( 3 ) be — ( a ) the importance of public attendance at the inquiry and disclosure or publication of information to the allaying of public concern , ( b ) any risk of harm to — ( i ) a victim or survivor of child sexual exploitation , ( ii ) a whistle - blower , or ( iii ) the future operational practice or method of law enforcement , that could be avoid or materially reduce by any such restriction , ( c ) any condition as to confidentiality subject to which a person acquire information which that person be to give , or have give , to the inquiry , and ( d ) the extent to which not impose any particular restriction would be likely to cause delay or to impair the efficiency or effectiveness of the inquiry or the fulfilment of the term of reference . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may direct the chair to revoke any restriction order make under this section or require the chair to impose a restriction order if they consider it conducive to the fulfilment of the term of reference of the inquiry and in the public interest have regard to the matter in subsection ( 4 ) . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State must , by a notice publish within a month of the end of the inquiry — ( a ) revoke a restriction order contain disclosure restriction that be still in force , or ( b ) vary such a restriction order so as to remove or relax any of the restriction , unless the Secretary of State consider it necessary , have regard to the matter in subsection ( 4 ) , to retain any of the disclosure restriction after the end of the inquiry . " this new clause would enable the Secretary of State and the chair of any inquiry propose by the Secretary of State on the sexual exploitation of child by organise network , to make provision for restriction on information provide to that inquiry . new clause 115 — proposal for an inquiry : power to require production of evidence etc . — " ( 1 ) the inquiry proposal bring forward by the Secretary of State under section [ requirement to bring forward proposal for an inquiry on the exploitation of child by organise network ] must make provision for power to produce evidence in accordance with this section . ( 2 ) the chair of any inquiry may require a person at a time and place state by notice — ( a ) to give evidence , ( b ) to produce any document in the custody or under the control of that person which relate to a matter in question at the inquiry , or ( c ) to produce any other thing in the custody or under the control of that person for inspection , examination or testing by or on behalf of the inquiry panel . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must require a public authority that have control of audio or visual record of specify proceeding to provide those audio or visual record to the Secretary of State . ( 4 ) subject to subsection ( 5 ) , the Secretary of State must , follow the provision of audio or visual record under subsection ( 2 ) , publish a transcription of those record on a website maintain by the Secretary of State for a period of 10 year . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may redact or omit any or all of the transcription where it be require by any express statutory provision , assimilate enforcement obligation , or for national security purpose , or which otherwise — ( a ) protect a victim or a whistle - blower , ( b ) protect the identity of an individual authorise for the conduct or the use of a covert human intelligence source except where that person be accuse of an offence and the Secretary of State consider it to be conducive to do so , or ( c ) avoid or remove any risk of harm to — ( i ) a victim or survivor of child sexual exploitation , or ( ii ) a whistle - blower , or ( iii ) the future operational practice or method of law enforcement , or ( d ) adversely affect any condition as to confidentiality subject to which a person acquire information which that person have provide in the course of any specified proceeding . ( 6 ) a person subject to subsection ( 2 ) can not be require to give , produce or provide any evidence or document if that person could not be require to do so on the ground of legal professional privilege if the proceeding of the inquiry be civil proceeding in a court in England and Wales . ( 7 ) in this section , ' specify proceeding ' mean any previous inquiry or commission or criminal proceeding which be notify in write to the Secretary of State by the chair of the inquiry . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State ' s proposal for an inquiry into the sexual exploitation of child by organise network to enable the chair to require that attendance or evidence be provide to that inquiry and , would provide for a process require the publication of specify proceeding . new clause 116 — inquiry offence — " ( 1 ) this section apply if the House of Commons have approve the establishment of an inquiry relate to the sexual exploitation of child by organise network under section [ requirement to bring forward proposal for an inquiry on the exploitation of child by organise network ] . ( 2 ) a person ( ' p ' ) be guilty of an offence if during the course of the inquiry — ( a ) p intentionally suppress or conceal a document that be , and that p know or believe to be , a relevant document , or ( b ) p intentionally alter or destroy a relevant document . ( 3 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) a document be a ' relevant document ' if it be likely that the inquiry panel would ( if aware of its existence ) wish to be provide with it . ( 4 ) a person who be guilty of an offence under this section be liable on summary conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceed 51 week . " this new clause would make it a criminal offence not to provide evidence to an inquiry relate to the sexual exploitation of child by organise network if an inquiry be establish under NC110 . new clause 117 — inquiry enforcement by High Court and contempt — " ( 1 ) this section apply if the House of Commons have approve the establishment of an inquiry relate to the sexual exploitation of child by organise network under section [ requirement to bring forward proposal for an inquiry on the exploitation of child by organise network ] . ( 2 ) where a person — ( a ) fail to comply with , or act in breach of , a notice to provide evidence or an order make by the chair , or ( b ) threaten to do so , the chair may bring a case refer the matter to the High Court . ( 3 ) the High Court , after hear any evidence or representation on a matter bring to it under subsection ( 2 ) , may make any order by way of enforcement or otherwise which it could have make if the matter have arise in proceeding before it . " this new clause would enable enforcement to be take in relation to a person who breach a requirement to provide evidence or attend proceeding in connection with any inquiry into the sexual exploitation of child by organise network establish under NC110 . new clause 118 — inquiry immunity from suit and legal challenge — " ( 1 ) this section apply if the House of Commons have approve the establishment of an inquiry relate to the sexual exploitation of child by organise network under section [ requirement to bring forward proposal for an inquiry on the exploitation of child by organise network ] . ( 2 ) no legal action may be bring against — ( a ) a member of the inquiry panel , ( b ) an assessor , counsel or solicitor to the inquiry , ( c ) a person engage to provide assistance to the inquiry , or ( d ) the Secretary of State , in respect of any act do or omission make in the execution of that person ' s duty or power , or any act do or omission make in good faith in the purport execution of that person ' s duty in the undertaking of the inquiry . ( 3 ) notwithstanding any other provision of any other enactment , a court or tribunal must not consider any claim or complaint ( whether by way of judicial review or otherwise ) which relate to the decision or conduct of — ( a ) a member of the inquiry panel , ( b ) an assessor , counsel or solicitor to the inquiry , ( c ) a person engage to provide assistance to the inquiry , or ( d ) the Secretary of State , in respect of any act do or omission make in the execution of that person ' s duty or power as part of the inquiry , or any act do or omission make in good faith in the purport execution of this Act . ( 4 ) an application which be not exclude under subsection ( 2 ) for judicial review of a decision make — ( a ) by the Secretary of State in relation to the inquiry , or ( b ) by a member of the inquiry panel , must be bring promptly and , no later than 14 day after the day on which the applicant become aware of the decision , unless that time limit be extend by the court . " this new clause would make provision relate to legal challenge in connection with any inquiry into the sexual exploitation of child by organise network establish under NC110 . new clause 119 — duty of cooperation with inquiry — " ( 1 ) this section apply if the House of Commons have approve the establishment of an inquiry relate to the sexual exploitation of child by organise network under section [ requirement to bring forward proposal for an inquiry on the exploitation of child by organise network ] . ( 2 ) a public authority must not act in a manner which conflict with or impede the inquiry act in accordance with its term of reference and must otherwise cooperate with the member of the inquiry in the exercise of its function . ( 3 ) in this section , ' public authority ' include any person or body certain of whose function be function of a public nature . " this new clause would ensure there be a duty of cooperation in connection with any inquiry into the sexual exploitation of child by organise network establish under NC110 . new clause 120 — racial and religious hatred and hatred on the ground of sexual orientation against an emergency worker — " ( 1 ) the Public Order Act 1986 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 18 , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 3 ) the exemption in respect of a dwelling place in subsection ( 2 ) do not apply where the offence be commit against an emergency worker . ( 3A ) for the purpose of subsection ( 3 ) the term " emergency worker " have the meaning give by section 3 of the assault on Emergency Workers ( Offences ) Act 2018 . ' ( 3 ) in section 29b , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 3 ) the exemption in respect of a dwelling place in subsection ( 2 ) do not apply where the offence be commit against an emergency worker . ( 3A ) for the purpose of subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) the term " emergency worker " have the meaning give by section 3 of the assault on Emergency Workers ( Offences ) Act 2018 . ' " this new clause would create an offence where racial or religious hatred or hatred on the basis of sexual orientation be direct against an emergency worker , and the offence take place in a private dwelling . new clause 121 — Amendment of Possession of extreme pornographic image — " ( 1 ) section 63 of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 ( possession of extreme pornographic image ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 7 ) after paragraph ( a ) insert — ' ( aa ) an act which affect a person ' s ability to breathe and constitute battery of that person . ' " this amendment would extend the legal definition of the extreme pornography to include the depiction of nonfatal strangulation . new clause 122 — aggravated offence against people because of their sexual orientation , transgender identity or disability — " ( 1 ) an offence be to be consider aggravate on the basis of sexual orientation , transgender identity or disability if — ( a ) at the time of commit the offence , or immediately before or after do so , the offender demonstrate towards the victim of the offence hostility base on the victim ' s — ( i ) sexual orientation , transgender identity or disability ( or presume sexual orientation , transgender identity or disability ) , or ; ( ii ) association with an individual or group define by reference to sexual orientation , transgender identity or disability ( or presume sexual orientation , transgender identity or disability ) ; or ( b ) the offence be motivate ( wholly or partly ) by hostility towards people because of their sexual orientation , transgender identity or disability or presume sexual orientation , transgender identity or disability ) . ( 2 ) in this section — ' presumed ' mean presume by the offender . ' disability ' have the same meaning as in the Sentencing Act 2020 . ' transgender identity ' have the same meaning as in the Sentencing Act 2020 . ' sexual orientation ' have the same meaning as in the Public Order Act 1986 . ( 3 ) a person be guilty of an offence under this section if they commit — ( a ) an offence under section 20 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 ( malicious wounding or grievous bodily harm ) ; ( b ) an offence under section 47 of that Act ( actual bodily harm ) ; ( c ) an offence under section 75a of the Serious Crime Act 2015 ( strangulation or suffocation ) ; or ( d ) common assault , which be aggravate for the purpose of this section . ( 4 ) a person guilty of an offence fall within subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) , ( b ) or ( c ) above shall be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed six month or to a fine not exceed the statutory maximum , or to both ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed seven year or to a fine , or to both . ( 5 ) a person guilty of an offence fall within subsection ( 3 ) ( d ) above shall be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed six month or to a fine not exceed the statutory maximum , or to both ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed two year or to a fine , or to both . ( 6 ) a person be guilty of an offence under this section if they commit an offence under section 1 ( 1 ) of the Criminal Damage Act 1971 ( destroy or damage property belong to another ) which be aggravate for the purpose of this section . ( 7 ) a person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed six month or to a fine not exceed the statutory maximum , or to both ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed fourteen year or to a fine , or to both . ( 8 ) for the purpose of this section , subsection ( 1 ) above shall have effect as if the person to whom the property belong or be treat as belong for the purpose of that Act be the victim of the offence . ( 9 ) a person be guilty of an offence under this section if they commit — ( a ) an offence under section 4 of the Public Order Act 1986 ( fear or provocation of violence ) ; ( b ) an offence under section 4A of that Act ( intentional harassment , alarm or distress ) ; or ( c ) an offence under section 5 of that Act ( harassment , alarm or distress ) , which be aggravate for the purpose of this section . ( 10 ) a person guilty of an offence fall within subsection ( 9 ) ( a ) or ( b ) above shall be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed six month or to a fine not exceed the statutory maximum , or to both ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed two year or to a fine , or to both . ( 11 ) a person guilty of an offence fall within subsection ( 9 ) ( c ) above shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceed level 4 on the standard scale . ( 12 ) if , on the trial on indictment of a person charge with an offence fall within subsection ( 9 ) ( a ) or ( b ) above , the jury find they not guilty of the offence charge , they may find they guilty of the basic offence mention in that provision . ( 13 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 9 ) ( c ) , subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) above shall have effect as if the person likely to be cause harassment , alarm or distress be the victim of the offence . ( 14 ) a person be guilty of an offence under this section if they commit — ( a ) an offence under section 2 of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 ( offence of harassment and stalking ) ; or ( b ) an offence under section 4 or 4A of that Act ( put people in fear of violence and stalk involve fear of violence or serious alarm or distress ) , which be aggravate for the purpose of this section . ( 15 ) a person guilty of an offence fall within subsection ( 13 ) ( a ) above shall be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed six month or to a fine not exceed the statutory maximum , or to both ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed two year or to a fine , or to both . ( 16 ) a person guilty of an offence fall within subsection ( 13 ) ( b ) above shall be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed six month or to a fine not exceed the statutory maximum , or to both ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 14 year or to a fine , or to both . ( 17 ) if , on the trial on indictment of a person charge with an offence fall within subsection ( 13 ) ( a ) above , the jury find they not guilty of the offence charge , they may find they guilty of either basic offence mention in that provision . ( 18 ) if , on the trial on indictment of a person charge with an offence fall within subsection ( 13 ) ( b ) above , the jury find they not guilty of the offence charge , they may find they guilty of an offence fall within subsection ( 13 ) ( a ) above . " this new clause would create statutory aggravate offence motivate by hostility towards an individual ' s disability status , sexual orientation or transgender identity ( or perception thereof ) . the new clause would also protect people who be victim of hate crime because of their association with individual base on their disability status , sexual orientation or transgender identity ( or perception thereof ) . new clause 123 — Removal of parental responsibility for individual convict of sexual offence against child — " ( 1 ) after section 2 ( parental responsibility for child ) of the Children Act 1989 , insert — ' 2A Prisoners : suspension of parental responsibility ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) a person ( " p " ) have be find guilty of a serious sexual offence involve or relate to a child or child ; and ( b ) p have parental responsibility for a child or child at the time at which the offence be commit . ( 2 ) p cease to have parental responsibility for a child or all child — ( a ) until the child , or child , turn 18 , or ( b ) until an application by p to the family court to reinstate parental responsibility have be approve . ' " this new clause would terminate the parental right of any individual convict of child sex offence to any child the individual have at the time the crime be commit . new clause 124 — duty to follow strategic priority of police and crime plan — " ( 1 ) the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 8 ( 1 ) ( duty to have regard to police and crime plan ) , for " have regard to " substitute ' follow the strategic priority of ' . ( 3 ) in section 8 ( 2 ) for ' have regard to ' substitute ' follow the strategic priority of ' . ( 4 ) in section 8 ( 3 ) for ' have regard to ' substitute ' follow the strategic priority of ' . ( 5 ) in section 8 ( 4 ) for ' have regard to ' substitute ' follow the strategic priority of ' . " this new clause would require Police and Crime Commissioners to follow the strategic priority of the police and crime plan rather than have regard to it . new clause 125 — Amendment of the Police Act 1996 — " ( 1 ) section 39a of the Police Act 1996 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after subsection ( 7 ) insert — ' ( 8 ) the Secretary of State may require that the College of Policing revise the whole or any part of a code of practice issue under this section or any other guidance or standard for police the College of Policing may issue . ( 9 ) the Secretary of State may require that the National Police Chiefs ' Council revise the whole or any part of policy , strategic plan , action plan , or any other document intend direct policing practice . ' " this new clause give the Secretary of State the power to amend , or require the withdrawal of , any Code of Practice issue by the College of Policing , or any document issue by the National Police Chiefs ' Council intend to direct policing practice . new clause 126 — previous conduct as factor in decide whether to investigate a complaint — " ( 1 ) the Police Reform Act 2002 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in Schedule 3 , paragraph 1 ( 6b ) ( d ) , at end insert ' or ( e ) the complaint be make about a person serve with the police who have previous conviction or have have previous complaint make against they . ' " this new clause would make previous complaint or conviction a factor in determine how to handle a new complaint against a police officer . new clause 127 — point on drive licence for fly tipping — " ( 1 ) the Environmental Protection Act be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 33 , subsection 8 ( a ) at end insert ' and endorse their driving record with 3 penalty point ; ' " this new clause would add penalty point to the drive licence of a person convict of a fly - tip offence . new clause 128 — Requirements in certain sentence impose for third or subsequent shoplifting offence — " ( 1 ) the Sentencing Code be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 208 ( community order : exercise of power to impose particular requirement ) , in subsection ( 3 ) and ( 6 ) after ' subsection ( 10 ) ' insert ' and section 208a ' . ( 3 ) after that section insert — " 208A Community order : requirement for third or subsequent shoplifting offence ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) a person be convict of adult shoplifting ( " the index offence " ) , ( b ) when the index offence be commit , the offender have on at least two previous occasion be sentence in respect of adult shoplifting or an equivalent Scottish or Northern Ireland offence , and ( c ) the court make a community order in respect of the index offence . ( 2 ) the community order must , subject to subsection ( 3 ) , include at least one of the following requirement — ( a ) a curfew requirement ; ( b ) an exclusion requirement ; ( c ) an electronic whereabouts monitor requirement . ( 3 ) subsection ( 2 ) do not apply if — ( a ) the court be of the opinion that there be exceptional circumstance which — ( i ) relate to any of the offence or the offender , an ( ii ) justify the court not include any requirement of a kind mention in subsection ( 2 ) , or ( b ) neither of the following requirement could be include in the order — ( i ) an electronic compliance monitoring requirement for secure compliance with a propose curfew requirement or propose exclusion requirement ; ( ii ) an electronic whereabouts monitor requirement . ( 4 ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) , the reference to an occasion on which an offender be sentence in respect of adult shoplifting do not include an occasion if — ( a ) each conviction for adult shoplifting for which the offender be deal with on that occasion have be quash , or ( b ) the offender be re - sentence for adult shoplifting ( and be not otherwise deal with for adult shoplifting ) on that occasion . ( 5 ) in this section — " adult shoplifting " mean an offence under section 1 of the Theft Act 1968 commit by a person age 18 or over in circumstance where — ( a ) the steal good be be offer for sale in a shop or any other premise , stall , vehicle or place from which a trade or business be carry on , and ( b ) at the time of the offence , the offender be , or be purport to be , a customer or potential customer of the person offer the good for sale ; " equivalent Scottish or Northern Ireland offence " mean — ( a ) in Scotland , theft commit by a person age 18 or over in the circumstance mention in paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) of the definition of " adult shoplifting " , or ( b ) in Northern Ireland , an offence under section 1 of the Theft Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1969 commit by a person age 18 or over in those circumstance . ( 6 ) nothing in subsection ( 2 ) enable a requirement to be include in a community order if it could not otherwise be so include . ( 7 ) where — ( a ) in a case to which this section apply , a court make a community order which include a requirement of a kind mention in subsection ( 2 ) , ( b ) a previous conviction of the offender be subsequently set aside on appeal , and ( c ) without the previous conviction this section would not have apply , notice of appeal against the sentence may be give at any time within 28 day from the day on which the previous conviction be set aside ( despite anything in section 18 of the Criminal Appeal Act 1968 ) . " ( 4 ) after section 292 insert — " 292A suspend sentence order : community requirement for third or subsequent shoplifting offence ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) a person be convict of adult shoplifting ( " the index offence " ) , ( b ) when the index offence be commit , the offender have on at least two previous occasion be sentence in respect of adult shoplifting or an equivalent Scottish or Northern Ireland offence , and ( c ) the court make a suspend sentence order in respect of the index offence . ( 2 ) the suspend sentence order must , subject to subsection ( 3 ) , impose at least one of the following requirement — ( a ) a curfew requirement ; ( b ) an exclusion requirement ; ( c ) an electronic whereabouts monitor requirement . ( 3 ) subsection ( 2 ) do not apply if — ( a ) the court be of the opinion that there be exceptional circumstance which — ( i ) relate to any of the offence or the offender , and ( ii ) justify the court not impose on the offender any requirement of a kind mention in subsection ( 2 ) , or ( b ) neither of the following requirement could be impose on the offender — ( i ) an electronic compliance monitoring requirement for secure compliance with a propose curfew requirement or propose exclusion requirement ; ( ii ) an electronic whereabouts monitor requirement . ( 4 ) section 208a ( 4 ) ( occasion to be disregard ) apply for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) . ( 5 ) in this section " adult shoplifting " and " equivalent Scottish or Northern Ireland offence " have the meaning give by section 208a . ( 6 ) nothing in subsection ( 2 ) enable a requirement to be impose by a suspend sentence order if it could not otherwise be so impose . ( 7 ) where — ( a ) in a case to which this section apply , a court make a suspend sentence order which impose a requirement of a kind mention in subsection ( 2 ) , ( b ) a previous conviction of the offender be subsequently set aside on appeal , and ( c ) without the previous conviction this section would not have apply , notice of appeal against the sentence may be give at any time within 28 day from the day on which the previous conviction be set aside ( despite anything in section 18 of the Criminal Appeal Act 1968 ) . ' " this new clause impose a duty ( subject to certain exception ) to impose a curfew requirement , an exclusion requirement or an electronic whereabouts monitor requirement on certain person convict of shoplifting , where the offender be give a community sentence or suspend sentence order . new clause 129 — Requirements in certain sentence impose for third assault of retail worker offence — " ( 1 ) the Sentencing Code be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 208 ( community order : exercise of power to impose particular requirement ) , in subsection ( 3 ) and ( 6 ) after ' and section 208b ' ( insert by section [ requirement in certain sentence impose for third shoplifting offence ] of this Act ) insert ' and 208b ' . ( 3 ) after section 208B insert — ' 208b community order : requirement for third or subsequent assault of retail worker offence ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) a person be convict of an offence under section 14 of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 ( assault of retail worker ) ( " the index offence " ) , ( b ) when the index offence be commit , the offender have on at least two previous occasion be sentence in respect of an offence under section ( assault of retail worker ) of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 commit when the offender be age 18 or over , and ( c ) the court make a community order in respect of the index offence . ( 2 ) the community order must , subject to subsection ( 3 ) , include at least one of the following requirement — ( a ) a curfew requirement ; ( b ) an exclusion requirement ; ( c ) an electronic whereabouts monitor requirement . ( 3 ) subsection ( 2 ) do not apply if — ( a ) the court be of the opinion that there be exceptional circumstance which — ( i ) relate to any of the offence or the offender , and ( ii ) justify the court not include any requirement of a kind mention in subsection ( 2 ) , or ( b ) neither of the following requirement could be include in the order — ( i ) an electronic compliance monitoring requirement for secure compliance with a propose curfew requirement or propose exclusion requirement ; ( ii ) an electronic whereabouts monitor requirement . ' ( 4 ) nothing in subsection ( 2 ) enable a requirement to be include in a community order if it could not otherwise be so include . ( 5 ) after section 292A ( insert by section [ requirement in certain sentence impose for third shoplifting offence ] of this Act ) insert — ' 292B suspend sentence order : community requirement for third or subsequent assault of retail worker offence ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) a person be convict of an offence under section ( assault of retail worker ) of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 ( assault of retail worker ) ( " the index offence " ) , ( b ) when the index offence be commit , the offender have on at least two previous occasion be sentence in respect of an offence under section ( assault of retail worker ) of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 commit when the offender be age 18 or over , and ( c ) the court make a suspend sentence order in respect of the index offence . ( 2 ) the suspend sentence order must , subject to subsection ( 3 ) , impose at least one of the following requirement — ( a ) a curfew requirement ; ( b ) an exclusion requirement ; ( c ) an electronic whereabouts monitor requirement . ( 3 ) subsection ( 2 ) do not apply if — ( a ) the court be of the opinion that there be exceptional circumstance which — ( i ) relate to any of the offence or the offender , and ( ii ) justify the court not impose on the offender any requirement of a kind mention in subsection ( 2 ) , or ( b ) neither of the following requirement could be impose on the offender — ( i ) an electronic compliance monitoring requirement for secure compliance with a propose curfew requirement or propose exclusion requirement ; ( ii ) an electronic whereabouts monitor requirement . ( 4 ) nothing in subsection ( 2 ) enable a requirement to be impose by a suspend sentence order if it could not otherwise be so imposed . ' " this new clause impose a duty ( subject to certain exception ) to impose a curfew requirement , an exclusion requirement or an electronic whereabouts monitor requirement on certain person convict of an offence under section 15 , where the offender be give a community sentence or suspend sentence order . new clause 130 — theft of tool : prevention of re - sale and prosecution of offence — " ( 1 ) the Equipment Theft Act 2023 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 3 ( Enforcement ) , subsection ( 2 ) at end insert ' equal to — ( a ) the replacement cost of the equipment , ( b ) the cost of repair any damage cause during the theft , and ( c ) the trading loss incur by the offended party . ' ( 3 ) in section 3 ( Enforcement ) , after subsection ( 3 ) insert — ' ( 3A ) an enforcement authority must put in place an enforcement plan to enforce regulation make under section 1 at temporary market in their area . ' ( 4 ) the Sentencing Act 2020 be amend as follow . ( 5 ) in chapter 3 , Aggravating Factors , after section 72 insert — ' 72a theft of tool from tradesman ( 1 ) this section apply where the court be consider the seriousness of an offence specify in section 7 of the Theft Act 1968 . ( 2 ) if the theft be of tool from a tradesman , the court — ( a ) must treat that fact as an aggravating factor , and ( b ) must state in open court that the offence be so aggravated . ' " new clause 131 — power to deport foreign national for possession of child sexual abuse image — " ( 1 ) the Protection of Children Act 1978 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 1 ( indecent photograph of child ) after subsection ( 4 ) insert — ' ( 4A ) where a person be a foreign national and be charge with — ( a ) an offence under subsection ( 1 ) , or ( b ) be find to be carry an electronic device store child sexual abuse image under section 164B of the Customs and Excise Management Act 1979 , the Secretary of State must make a deportation order in accordance with section 32 of the UK Borders Act 2007 . ' " this new clause would make foreign national find in possession of child sexual abuse image subject to automatic deportation . new clause 132 — annual report on police action in area with high level of serious offence — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must publish an annual report on police action in area with high level of serious offence . ( 2 ) each such report must include datum from police force in England and Wales to identify area with the high rate of serious offence . ( 3 ) for each area specify under subsection ( 2 ) , each report must include datum on — ( a ) level of police officer on duty ; ( b ) use of power under section 1 ( power of constable to stop and search person , vehicle etc . ) of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 ; and ( c ) use of live facial recognition technology . ( 4 ) the first such report must be lay before Parliament within a period end 6 month after the passing of this Act . ( 5 ) each subsequent report must be lay before Parliament within 12 month of the publication of the last report under this section . ( 6 ) for the purpose of this section , ' serious offence ' have the same meaning as in Schedule 1 of the Serious Crime Act 2007 . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to publish annual report on police presence , use of stop and search , and live facial recognition technology in area with the high level of serious crime . new clause 133 — stop and search — " ( 1 ) the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 60 ( 1 ) ( a ) and ( aa ) leave out ' serious . ' " this new clause lower the threshold for stop and search to " violence " rather than " serious violence . " new clause 134 — Seizure of motor vehicle : drive licence penalty — " ( 1 ) the Police Reform Act 2002 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 59 ( vehicle use in a manner cause alarm , distress or annoyance ) , after subsection ( 6 ) insert — ' ( 6a ) a person who be convict of repeat offence under subsection ( 6 ) will have their drive licence endorse with penalty point up to and include the revocation of their drive licence . ' " this new clause would make a person guilty of repeat offence of use vehicle in a manner cause alarm , distress or annoyance liable to penalty point on their drive licence or the revocation of their licence . new clause 135 — automatic dismissal of officer who fail vet — " ( 1 ) the Police Act 1996 be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) in section 39a ( code of practice for chief officer ) , after subsection ( 1 ) insert — ' ( 1A ) without prejudice to subsection ( 1 ) and subject to subsection ( 1B ) , a code of practice may provide for an officer to be dismiss without notice where — ( a ) the officer fail vetting , and ( b ) it be not reasonable to expect that the officer will be capable of be deploy to full duty within a reasonable time frame . ( 1B ) subsection ( 1A ) do not apply where a chief officer conclude that — ( a ) the officer , notwithstanding his vetting failure , be capable of be deploy to a substantial majority of duty appropriate for an officer of his rank ; and ( b ) it would be disproportionate to the operational effectiveness of the force for the officer to be dismiss without notice . ' " this new clause would ensure police officer who fail their vetting can be dismiss . new clause 136 — theft from farm — " ( 1 ) the Sentencing Act 2020 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in chapter 3 , Aggravating Factors , after section 72 insert — ' ( 72a ) theft from farm ( 1 ) this section apply where the court be consider the seriousness of an offence specify in section 7 of the Theft Act 1968 . ( 2 ) if the theft be of high value farming equipment , the court — ( a ) must treat that fact as an aggravating factor , and ( b ) must state in open court that the offence be so aggravated . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section — " high value farming equipment " be machinery and tool use in agricultural operation to enhance productivity and efficiency , with a value of at least £ 10 , 000 . ' " this new clause make theft of high value farming equipment an aggravate factor on sentencing . new clause 137 — defence to criminal damage — " ( 1 ) the Criminal Damage Act 1971 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) leave out subsection ( 5 ) ( 3 ) and insert — ' ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section , a belief must be both honestly hold and reasonable . ' " this new clause would change the defence to criminal damage in the Criminal Damage Act 1971 to specify that the belief that the owner of the property would have consent must be reasonable . new clause 138 — mean of serious disruption to the life of the community — " ( 1 ) section 12 of the Public Order Act 1986 ( impose condition on public procession ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 2A ) , for the word from ' , the case ' to the end substitute — ' ( a ) the case in which a public procession in England and Wales may result in serious disruption to the life of the community include , in particular , where it may , by way of physical obstruction , result in — ( i ) the prevention of , or a hindrance that be more than minor to , the carrying out of day - to - day activity ( include in particular the making of a journey ) , ( ii ) the prevention of , or a delay that be more than minor to , the delivery of a time - sensitive product to consumer of that product , or ( iii ) the prevention of , or a disruption that be more than minor to , access to any essential good or any essential service , ( b ) in consider whether a public procession in England and Wales may result in serious disruption to the life of the community , the senior police officer — ( i ) must take into account all relevant disruption , and ( ii ) may take into account any relevant cumulative disruption , and ( c ) " community " in relation to a public procession in England and Wales , mean any group of person that may be affect by the procession , whether or not all or any of those person live or work in the vicinity of the procession . ' ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2B ) , for ' subsection ( 2A ) ( a ) ' substitute ' subsection ( 2A ) and this subsection — " access to any essential good or any essential service " in particular , access to — ( a ) the supply of money , food , water , energy or fuel , ( b ) a system of communication , ( c ) a place of worship , ( d ) a transport facility , ( e ) an educational institution , or ( f ) a service relate to health ; ' area ' , in relation to a public procession or public assembly , mean such area as the senior police officer consider appropriate , have regard to the nature and extent of the disruption that may result from the procession or assembly ; ' relevant cumulative disruption ' , in relation to a public procession in England and Wales , mean the cumulative disruption to the life of the community result from — ( a ) the procession , ( b ) any other public procession in England and Wales that be hold , be be hold or be intend to be hold in the same area as the area in which the procession mention in paragraph ( a ) be be hold or be intend to be hold ( whether or not direction have be give under subsection ( 1 ) in relation to that other procession ) , and ( c ) any public assembly in England and Wales that be hold , be be hold or be intend to be hold in the same area in which the procession mention in paragraph ( a ) be be hold or be intend to be hold ( whether or not direction have be give under section 14 ( 1A ) in relation to that assembly ) , and it do not matter whether or not the procession mention in paragraph ( a ) and any procession or assembly within paragraph ( b ) or ( c ) be organise by the same person , be attend by any of the same person or be hold or be intend to be hold at the same time ; ' relevant disruption ' , in relation to a public procession in England and Wales , mean all disruption to the life of the community — ( a ) that may result from the procession , or ( b ) that may occur regardless of whether the procession be hold ( include in particular normal traffic congestion ) ; " . ' ( 4 ) section 14 of the Public Order Act 1986 ( impose condition on public assembly ) be amend as follow . ( 5 ) in subsection ( 2A ) , for the word from ' , the case ' to the end substitute — " ( a ) the case in which a public assembly in England and Wales may result in serious disruption to the life of the community include , in particular , where it may , by way of physical obstruction , result in — ( i ) the prevention of , or a hindrance that be more than minor to , the carrying out of day - to - day activity ( include in particular the making of a journey ) , ( ii ) the prevention of , or a delay that be more than minor to , the delivery of a time - sensitive product to consumer of that product , or ( iii ) the prevention of , or a disruption that be more than minor to , access to any essential good or any essential service , ( b ) in consider whether a public assembly in England and Wales may result in serious disruption to the life of the community , the senior police officer — ( i ) must take into account all relevant disruption , and ( ii ) may take into account any relevant cumulative disruption , and ( c ) ' community ' in relation to a public assembly in England and Wales , mean any group of person that may be affect by the assembly , whether or not all or any of those person live or work in the vicinity of the assembly . ' ( 6 ) in subsection ( 2B ) , for ' subsection ( 2A ) ( a ) ' substitute ' subsection ( 2A ) and this subsection — " access to any essential good or any essential service " , include , in particular , access to — ( a ) the supply of money , food , water , energy or fuel , ( b ) a system of communication , ( c ) a place of worship , ( d ) a transport facility , ( e ) an educational institution , or ( f ) a service relate to health ; ' area ' , in relation to a public assembly or public procession , mean such area as the senior police officer consider appropriate , have regard to the nature and extent of the disruption that may result from the assembly or procession ; ' relevant cumulative disruption ' , in relation to a public assembly in England and Wales , mean the cumulative disruption to the life of the community result from — ( a ) the assembly , ( b ) any other public assembly in England and Wales that be hold , be be hold or be intend to be hold in the same area in which the assembly mention in paragraph ( a ) be be hold or be intend to be hold ( whether or not direction have be give under subsection ( 1A ) in relation to that other assembly ) , and ( c ) any public procession in England and Wales that be hold , be be hold or be intend to be hold in the same area as the area in which the assembly mention in paragraph ( a ) be be hold or be intend to be hold ( whether or not direction have be give under section 12 ( 1 ) in relation to that procession ) , and it do not matter whether or not the assembly mention in paragraph ( a ) and any assembly or procession within paragraph ( b ) or ( c ) be organise by the same person , be attend by any of the same person or be hold or be intend to be hold at the same time ; ' relevant disruption ' , in relation to a public assembly in England and Wales , mean all disruption to the life of the community — ( a ) that may result from the assembly , or ( b ) that may occur regardless of whether the assembly be hold ( include in particular normal traffic congestion ) . " this new clause define " serious disruption to the life of the community " so as to amend the effect of the Zeigler judgement . new clause 139 — removal of prohibition on enter a private dwelling to confiscate an off - road bike and ensure their destruction — " ( 1 ) the Road Traffic Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 165A , after subsection ( 5 ) ( c ) insert — ' ( 5a ) in exercise their power under subsection ( 5 ) , a constable may enter a private dwelling house for the purpose of seize an off - road bike ' . ( 3 ) the Police Reform Act 2002 be amend as follow . ( 4 ) in section 59 ( 7 ) , at end insert ' , except where the intention be to seize an off - road bike . ' ( 5 ) the Road Traffic Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 6 ) in section 165b ( 2 ) , at end insert — ' ; ( g ) where the seize motor vehicle be an off - road bike , to ensure its destruction by the police ' . ( 7 ) the Police Reform Act 2002 be amend as follow . ( 8 ) in section 60 ( 2 ) , at end insert — ' ; ( g ) where the seize motor vehicle be an off - road bike , to ensure its destruction by the police . ' " this new clause would remove the prohibition on the police enter a private dwelling to confiscate an off - road bike that be drive without a licence , uninsured , or be use illegally and would create a duty to destroy off - road bike . new clause 140 — Police access to the UK tobacco track and trace system — " the Secretary of State must , through regulation , make provision for the police to access the HMRC tobacco track and trace system for the purpose of determine the provenance of tobacco product sell by retailer . " this new clause would allow the police to access the UK Tobacco Track and Trace system for the purpose of determine whether a retailer have obtain steal or counterfeit tobacco illegally . new clause 141 — Soliciting Prostitution for Rent Offence — " ( 1 ) the Sexual Offences Act 2003 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 52 ( cause or incite prostitution for gain ) insert — ' 52a solicit prostitution for rent ( 1 ) a person commit an offence if — ( a ) they intentionally cause or incite a person to become a prostitute in exchange for accommodation ; ( b ) they intentionally cause or incite a person to become a prostitute in exchange for a reduction in money pay as rent for a property ; ( c ) they attempt to cause or incite a person to become a prostitute in exchange for accommodation ; or ( d ) they attempt to cause or incite a person to become a prostitute in exchange for a reduction in money pay as rent for a property . these offence refer to both property own or reside in by the offender . ( 2 ) a person guilty of an offence under this section be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 6 month or a fine not exceed the statutory maximum or both ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 7 year ; or ( c ) to a " ban order " as define in part 2 , chapter 2 of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 . ' " this new clause would create a new offence of solicit prostitution in exchange for rent and allow offender to be ban from rent property after the offence . new clause 142 — travel abroad to support a proscribe organisation — " ( 1 ) a person commit an offence if they travel outside of the United Kingdom to support a proscribe organisation . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , ' support ' include — ( a ) become a member of a proscribe organisation , or an affiliated group of a proscribe organisation ; ( b ) work for any entity , either voluntarily or for financial gain , run by a proscribe organisation ; ( c ) attend political , religious or social gathering in support of a proscribe organisation ; ( d ) meeting with member of a proscribe organisation ; ( e ) create content , both online and offline , to raise support for a proscribe organisation ; or ( f ) travel to territory control by a proscribe organisation without an exemption . ( 3 ) this section do not apply to — ( a ) accredit non - governmental organisation and humanitarian organisation ; ( b ) accredit medium outlet and journalist ; ( c ) diplomat and other governmental official travel in an official capacity ; or ( d ) independent journalist and content creator report on a proscribe organisation , or in a territory with a proscribe organisation present . ( 4 ) a person guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable — ( a ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 14 year , to a fine ( or both ) , or ( b ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment of a term not exceed 6 month , to a fine not exceed the statutory maximum ( or both ) . " this new clause would make travel abroad to support a proscribe organisation an offence . new clause 143 — individual preparation for mass casualty attack — " ( 1 ) a person commit an offence , if , with the intention of — ( a ) kill two or more people , or ( b ) attempt to kill two or more people , they engage in any conduct in preparation for give effect to their intention . ( 2 ) a person find guilty of an offence under this section shall be liable , on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for life . " this new clause would allow the police to intervene early to prevent attack , like in terrorism case , without cause unintended consequence for wide counter - terrorism effort . it give effect to a recommendation by the independent reviewer of terrorist legislation follow the Southport attack . new clause 144 — requirement to bring forward proposal for a national statutory inquiry into groom gang — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 3 month of the passing of this Act , publish proposal for approval by the House of Commons for the setting up of a statutory inquiry into groom gang . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State ' s proposal for an inquiry must include , but may not be limit to identification of — ( a ) common pattern of behaviour and offending between groom gang ; ( b ) the type , extent and volume of crime commit by groom gang ; ( c ) the number of victim of crime commit by groom gang ; ( d ) the ethnicity of member of groom gang ; ( e ) any failing , by action , omission or deliberate suppression , by — ( i ) police , ( ii ) local authority , ( iii ) prosecutor , ( iv ) charity , ( v ) political party , ( vi ) local and national government , ( vii ) healthcare provider and health service , or ( viii ) other agency or body , in the committal of crime by groom ; ( f ) such national safeguarding action as may be require to minimise the risk of further such offending occur in future ; and ( g ) good practice in protect child . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State ' s proposal for an inquiry must stipulate that the inquiry may do anything it consider be calculate to facilitate , or be incidental or conducive to the carrying out of its function and the achievement of the requirement of subsection ( 2 ) . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State ' s proposal must make provision for the timetable of any inquiry , include that a report must be publish within two year of its launch . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section — ' gang ' mean a group of at least three adult whose purpose or intention be to commit a sexual offence against the same victim or group of victim ; ' groom ' mean — ( a ) activity carry out with the primary intention of commit sexual offence against the victim ; ( b ) activity that be carry out , or predominantly carry out , in person ; ( c ) activity that include the provision of illicit substance and / or alcohol either as part of the grooming or concurrent with the commission of the sexual offence . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to bring forward proposal on the setting up of a national statutory inquiry into groom gang for approval by the House of Commons . new clause 145 — annual statement on ethnicity of member of groom gang — " the Secretary of State must make an annual statement to the House of Commons on the ethnicity of convict member of groom gang . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to make an annual statement to the House on ethnicity datum of convict member of groom gang . new clause 146 — publication of sex offender ' s ethnicity datum — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State for the Home Office must publish — ( a ) quarterly ; and ( b ) yearly ; dataset contain all national datum pertain to the ethnicity of sex offender . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , a ' sex offender ' be anyone convict of — ( a ) an offence under section 1 of the Protection of Children Act 1978 ( take etc indecent photograph of child ) , ( b ) an offence under section 160 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 ( possession of indecent photograph of child ) , ( c ) an offence under any of section 5 to 8 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( rape and other offence against child under 13 ) , ( d ) an offence under any section 9 to 12 of that Act ( other child 25 sex offence ) , ( e ) an offence under section 14 of that Act ( arrange or facilitate commission of child sex offence ) , ( f ) an offence under any of section 16 to 19 of that Act ( abuse of position of trust ) , ( g ) an offence under section 25 or 26 of that Act ( familial child sex offence ) , or ( h ) an offence under any of section 47 to 50 of that Act ( sexual exploitation of child ) , ( i ) an offence under any of section 1 to 4 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( rape , assault and cause sexual activity without consent ) , ( j ) an offence under any of section 30 to 41 of that Act ( sexual offence relate to person with mental disorder ) , ( k ) an offence under any of section 61 to 63 of that Act ( preparatory offence ) , or ( l ) an offence under any of section 66 to 67a of that Act ( exposure and voyeurism ) , ( m ) an offence under section 71 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( sexual activity in a public lavatory ) and a person involve in the activity in question be under the age of 18 . " this new clause would introduce a requirement that ethnicity datum of sex offender be publish on a quarterly and a yearly basis . new clause 147 — financial gain from child sexual exploitation and abuse — " ( 1 ) the Sentencing Act 2020 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 70 insert — ' 70a financial gain from child sexual exploitation ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) a court be consider the seriousness of a specified child sex offence ; or ( b ) the offence be aggravate by financial gain ; and ( c ) the offender be age 18 or over when the offence be commit . ( 2 ) the court — ( a ) must treat the fact that the offence be aggravate by financial gain from a specified child sex offence or child sexual abuse material as an aggravating factor ; and ( b ) must state in open court that the offence be so aggravated . ( 3 ) an offence be " aggravate by financial gain from a specified child sex offence or child sexual abuse material as an aggravating factor " if — ( a ) the offence be facilitate by , or involve , the offender financially profit from a child sexual offence ; or ( b ) the offence be facilitate by , or involve , a person other than the offender financially profit from a child sex offence , and the offender know , or could have reasonably be expect to know that the say person be financially profiting from say child sex offence . ( 4 ) in this section " specify child sex offence " mean — ( a ) an offence within any of subsection ( 5 ) to ( 7 ) ; or ( b ) an inchoate offence in relation to any such offence . ( 5 ) an offence be within this subsection if it be — ( a ) an offence under section 1 of the Protection of Children Act 1978 ( take etc indecent photograph of child ) ; ( b ) an offence under section 160 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 ( possession of indecent photograph of child ) ; ( c ) an offence under any of section 5 to 8 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( rape and other offence against child under 13 ) ; ( d ) an offence under any of section 9 to 12 of that Act ( other child sex offence ) ; ( e ) an offence under section 14 of that Act ( arrange or facilitate commission of child sex offence ) ; ( f ) an offence under any of section 16 to 19 of that Act ( abuse of position of trust ) ; ( g ) an offence under section 25 or 26 of that Act ( familial child sex offence ) ; or ( h ) an offence under any of section 47 to 50 of that Act ( sexual exploitation of child ) . ( 6 ) an offence be within this subsection if it be — ( a ) an offence under any of section 1 to 4 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( rape , assault and cause sexual activity without consent ) ; ( b ) an offence under any of section 30 to 41 of that Act ( sexual offence relate to person with mental disorder ) ; ( c ) an offence under any of section 61 to 63 of that Act ( preparatory offence ) ; or ( d ) an offence under any of section 66 to 67a of that Act ( exposure and voyeurism ) , and the victim or intended victim be under the age of 18 . ( 7 ) an offence be within this subsection if it be an offence under section 71 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( sexual activity in a public lavatory ) and a person involve in the activity in question be under the age of 18 . ( 8 ) for the purpose of this section " financially profiting " mean receive money , good , or any other form of payment . ' " this new clause would create an aggravate factor when sentence for any individual who have financially benefit from the creation , distribution , possession or publication of any specified child sexual abuse offence . new clause 148 — annual statement on employment status of sexual offender — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must publish an annual report on the employment status of convict sexual offender at the time of their offence . ( 2 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) , ' sexual offender ' mean any person find guilty of an offence stipulate in the Sexual Offences Act 2003 . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to release an annual report on the employment status of convict sexual offender . new clause 149 — child murder Sentencing Guidelines — " ( 1 ) the Sentencing Act 2020 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in Schedule 21 , paragraph 2 ( 2 ) omit ( b ) and ( ba ) and insert — ' ( zb ) the murder of a child ' . " this new clause would make the start punishment for child murder a whole life order . currently a child murderer must have abduct , sexually abuse or put substantial planning into the murder to receive a whole life order . any child murderer should receive a whole life order . new clause 150 — prohibition on sexual relationship between first cousin — " ( 1 ) the Sexual Offences Act 2003 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 27 ( family relationship ) , subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) after ' uncle , ' insert ' first cousin , ' . ( 3 ) in section 64 ( sex with an adult relative : penetration ) , subsection ( 2 ) after ' niece ' insert ' or first cousin . ' ( 4 ) in subsection 64 ( 3 ) at end insert — ' ( c ) " first cousin " mean the child of a parent ' s sible . ' ( 5 ) this section do not affect the continue sexual relationship between first cousin that have begin before the Crime and Policing Act 2025 receive Royal Assent . " this new clause would ban sexual relationship between first cousin after the passing of this Act . new clause 151 — Threshold for intentional harassment , alarm or distress — " ( 1 ) the Public Order Act 1986 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 4A ( 1 ) ( a ) and ( b ) leave out ' or insulting . ' . " new clause 152 — point on drive licence for litter out of a vehicle window — " ( 1 ) the Environmental Protection Act 1990 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 87 , subsection ( 5 ) , at end insert — ' ( 5A ) where a person be find guilty of an offence of litter commit under section 87 ( 1 ) that occur as a result of litter be throw , drop or otherwise deposit from a vehicle , they shall also be liable to an endorsement of 3 penalty point on their driving record . ' " this new clause would add penalty point to the drive licence of a person convict of litter from a vehicle . new clause 153 — access to public fund for organisation support criminal conduct — " an organisation or group will not be eligible for public funding if there be evidence that it — ( a ) actively promote or support criminal conduct , or ( b ) seek to subvert the constitutional integrity or democratic institution of the United Kingdom through violent or illegal mean . " this new clause would prevent organisation or group which support criminal conduct or use violence to seek to subvert the constitutional integrity or democratic function of the UK from access public fund . new clause 155 — report on an economic crime fighting fund — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must undertake an assessment of the viability , and potential merit , of establish an economic crime fighting fund base on the principle of reinveste a proportion of receipt result from economic crime enforcement into a pool fund for the purpose of provide multi - year resourcing for tackle economic crime . ( 2 ) the assessment specify in subsection ( 1 ) must also examine whether such a fund could address how annularity rule can prevent some law enforcement agency from benefit from recovered asset under the asset recovery incentivisation scheme . ( 3 ) in carry out the assessment , the Secretary of State must consult such person as the Secretary of State consider appropriate . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must publish and lie before Parliament a report on the outcome of the assessment by the end of the period of 12 month begin with the day on which this Act be pass . " new clause 156 — film and distribute violent act : offence — " ( 1 ) it be an offence for person ( x ) to film and distribute violent act involve person ( Y ) where there be clear premeditation , and deliberately participate with intent , by x to humiliate and / or distress Y . ( 2 ) it be also an offence under this section for any person , whether x or another individual , to have make the recording with the premeditate intention that it will be distribute , stream or broadcast , with the intent to humiliate and / or distress Y . ( 3 ) when sentence an individual convict of an offence under subsection ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) ( or both ) , the court be to treat the age and vulnerability of person Y as aggravating factor . ( 4 ) an offence be not commit where the footage be use for public interest journalism or evidentiary purpose . " new clause 157 — processing of datum in relation to a case - file prepare by the police service for submission to the Crown Prosecution Service for a charge decision — " ( 1 ) the Data Protection Act 2018 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 40 , insert — ' 40a process of datum in relation to a case - file prepare by the police service for submission to the Crown Prosecution Service for a charge decision ( 1 ) this section apply to a set of processing operation consist of the preparation of a case - file by the police service for submission to the Crown Prosecution Service for a charge decision , the making of a charge decision by the Crown Prosecution Service , and the return of the case - file by the Crown Prosecution Service to the police service after a charging decision have be make . ( 2 ) the police service be not oblige to comply with the first data protection principle except insofar as that principle require process to be fair , or the third datum protection principle , in prepare a case - file for submission to the Crown Prosecution Service for a charge decision . ( 3 ) the Crown Prosecution Service be not oblige to comply with the first data protection principle except insofar as that principle require process to be fair , or the third datum protection principle , in make a charge decision on a case - file submit for that purpose by the police service . ( 4 ) if the Crown Prosecution Service decide that a charge will not be pursue when it make a charge decision on a case - file submit for that purpose by the police service it must take all step reasonably require to destroy and delete all copy of the case - file in its possession . ( 5 ) if the Crown Prosecution Service decide that a charge will be pursue when it make a charge decision on a case - file submit for that purpose by the police service it must return the case - file to the police service and take all step reasonably require to destroy and delete all copy of the case - file in its possession . ( 6 ) where the Crown Prosecution Service decide that a charge will be pursue when it make a charge decision on a case - file submit for that purpose by the police service and return the case - file to the police service under subsection ( 5 ) , the police service must comply with the first data protection principle and the third data protection principle in relation to any subsequent processing of the datum contain in the case - file . ( 7 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) the police service mean — ( i ) constabulary maintain by virtue of an enactment , or ( ii ) subject to section 126 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 ( prison staff not to be regard as in police service ) , any other service whose member have the power or privilege of a constable , ( b ) the preparation of , or prepare , a case - file by the police service for submission to the Crown Prosecution Service for a charge decision include the submission of the file , ( c ) a case - file include all information obtain by the police service for the purpose of prepare a case - file for submission to the Crown Prosecution Service for a charge decision . ' " this new clause adjust Section 40 of the Data Protection Act 2018 to exempt the police service and the Crown Prosecution Service from the first and third datum protection principle contain within the 2018 Act so that they can share unredacted datum with one another when make a charge decision . new clause 158 — Anti - social behaviour : definition and enforcement — " ( 1 ) for the purpose of — ( a ) section 2 ( 1 ) of the Anti - social Behaviour , Crime and Policing Act 2014 , and ( b ) Part 1 of this Act , conduct shall not be consider ' anti - social behaviour ' solely on the basis that it involve — ( i ) rough sleeping , ( ii ) non - aggressive begging , ( iii ) the use of public space for shelter , rest , or subsistence - relate activity , ( iv ) any conduct arise directly from homelessness , socio - economic need or vulnerability , or lack of access to housing or essential service . ( 2 ) for conduct to meet the threshold of be ' likely to cause harassment , alarm or distress to any person ' , it must — ( a ) involve behaviour that be target , threaten , or persistently disruptive to other , and ( b ) give rise to a genuine and ongoing risk of harm or serious nuisance beyond mere visibility or discomfort cause by socio - economic need or vulnerability . ( 3 ) in assess whether behaviour constitute anti - social behaviour under either Act , the relevant authority or court must have regard to — ( a ) whether the conduct reflect socio - economic need or vulnerability rather than intent to harm or harass , ( b ) the individual ' s housing status , mental and physical health , and access to support , and ( c ) whether alternative , non - punitive intervention have be offer or exhausted . ( 4 ) an order , injunction , or direction under either Act must not be impose where the conduct arise from destitution or homelessness unless — ( a ) the conduct pose a demonstrable and ongoing risk to the public , and ( b ) enforcement be necessary and proportionate , and ( c ) appropriate support , include housing or welfare assistance , have be actively seek and reasonably refuse . ( 5 ) nothing in this section shall prevent proportionate enforcement action where conduct constitute a demonstrable and ongoing threat to public safety or the right and freedom of other , and where such action be necessary and proportionate in the circumstance . " this new clause would make clear that rough sleeping , passive begging , or visibly use public space for shelter or subsistence do not , on its own , amount to anti - social behaviour . it would place a legal duty on authority to consider context , vulnerability , and proportionality when assess whether behaviour constitute anti - social behaviour . new clause 159 — duty for church , faith group and other body to report suspect child sex offence — " ( 1 ) an individual must make a notification under this section if they be give reason to suspect that a child sex offence may have be commit ( at any time ) . ( 2 ) a notification — ( a ) must be make to a relevant police force or a relevant local authority ( but may be make to both ) ; ( b ) must identify each person believe to have be involve in the suspect offence ( so far as know ) and explain why the notification be make ; ( c ) must be make as soon as practicable ; and ( d ) may be make orally or in writing . ( 3 ) the duty under subsection ( 1 ) apply to — ( a ) any person undertake work on either a paid or voluntary basis , or hold a leadership position , within the Christian , Buddhist , hindu , jewish , Muslim or Sikh faith , or any other religion or faith , and ( b ) any other belief system or cult . " new clause 160 — Removal of 12 - Month Limitation Period for Historic Sexual Offences — " ( 1 ) the Sexual Offences Act 2003 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 8 , insert — ' ( 8a ) Removal of 12 - Month Limitation Period for Historic Sexual Offences ( 1 ) proceeding may be institute at any time for the offence of unlawful sexual intercourse with a person age 13 to 15 under section 6 of the Sexual Offences Act 1956 , regardless of the time elapse since the allege offence . ( 2 ) subsection ( 1 ) apply to offence allege to have be commit before 1 May 2004 . ' " this new clause remove the 12 - month limitation period for offence under section 6 of the Sexual Offences Act 1956 where the offence occur before 1 May 2004 . I be proud to have stand on a manifesto pledge to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade , and I know that colleague on the Front Bench take that extremely seriously . there be significant measure in this Bill on intimate image abuse , stalk , spike and the sexual exploitation of child . I know they mark only the beginning of the Government ' s mission to tackle those shameful crime . as a national inquiry into child sexual exploitation perpetrate by groom gang rightly get under way , we must now also confront the adult sexual exploitation be perpetrate on an industrial scale by pimp website and man who pay for sex , both of which currently enjoy near - total legal impunity . law against the commercial sexual exploitation of adult in this country be outdated , unjust and totally ineffective . in fact , our current legal framework create a conducive context for commercial sexual exploitation — a failing that overwhelmingly affect woman . pimp website , which function as massive online brothel , operate openly and freely , supercharge the sex trafficking trade by make it easy and quick for exploiter to advertise their victim . those online mega - brothel make million of pound every year by advertise thousand of vulnerable woman from across the world for prostitution in the UK . sadly , our legislation allow that . man who pay for sex , so often leave out of conversation on prostitution and sex trafficking but who be the beat heart of such a brutal trade , abuse with impunity . their demand and their money drive the sex trafficking trade , yet we do very little to deter they . let we therefore start that process today by make it crystal clear as a Parliament that it be not possible to buy sexual consent . give someone money , accommodation , good or service in exchange for sex act be sexual exploitation and abuse ; it be never acceptable . I commend the hon . Lady and her party for bring this legislation forward . she be probably well aware that we in Northern Ireland , through Lord Morrow and the Assembly sometime back , bring in specific legislation on this , for the first time in the United Kingdom . have she have an opportunity to look at that legislative change we have at Stormont ? what she bring forward be even well than what we have originally try to get at the Assembly . do she feel , in all honesty , that woman will be protect from sexual exploitation , as she have clearly say that they should ? the hon . member be right to say that there be excellent practice in Northern Ireland , and the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , which I chair , be look at that . he may be interested in that . why should we implement this model for sex work when the evidence from the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland show that it have increase violence towards sex worker ? my hon . friend and I obviously do not look at this through the same lens . for I , it be prostitution and not sex work , and we need to see some more example of that be use . we currently have a situation where sex buyer enjoy near - total impunity while the vulnerable woman they exploit can face criminal sanction if they solicit on the street . the state hand out fine to woman in a self - defeat effort to stop they solicit on the street , ignore the question of where those woman be most likely to earn the money to pay their fine . sanction victim of sexual exploitation be counterproductive and a barrier to seek help and exit this ruthless trade . that be why I have table amendment new clause 2 , 3 and 4 . new clause 2 would make it a criminal offence to enable or profit from the prostitution of another person online and offline , thereby outlaw dangerous pimp website that be fuel demand and facilitate sex trafficking . new clause 3 and 4 would together shift the burden of criminality off victim of sexual exploitation and on to perpetrator . new clause 3 would make it a criminal offence to pay for sex , send a clear message to boy that that be not an acceptable way to treat woman and an equally clear message to man who be consider pay for sex that they face prosecution . we know from research with UK sex buyer that this would be an effective deterrent . over half of 1 , 200 sex buyer question in one study say that they would definitely , probably or possibly change their behaviour if a law be introduce that make it a crime to pay for sex . new clause 4 would repeal sanction against victim of sexual exploitation who solicit on the street to remove that barrier to woman exit prostitution and rebuild their life . it be also widely agree that the expunging of criminal record of section 1 offence be necessary to end the unjust stigmatisation that these woman continue to experience . that be why I have also table new clause 19 to introduce such a mechanism . the Home Affairs Committee have recommend that " the Home Office change exist legislation so that soliciting be no long an offence " , and " legislate for the deletion of previous conviction and caution for prostitution from the record of sex worker by amend the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act . " for most of these woman , their record of conviction be a record of their exploitation and abuse , and they live in fear of have to disclose that history when apply for job or volunteering . decriminalising section 1 offence and allow for the expunging of those historical conviction would allow those woman to finally be free of the record of their abuse and the stigma they have endure for decade . my amendment would usher in a legal framework that recognise that prostitution be violence against woman , and the only way to end this violence be to deter the perpetrator and profiteer . I be delighted , then , that more than 50 hon . member have sign new clause 2 to 4 . I particularly thank member of the all - party parliamentary group on commercial sexual exploitation , which I chair , for their support . the amendment be inform and support by survivor and good practice frontline support service such as NIA , Kairos Women work together , and Women @ TheWell . I note that , unsurprisingly , some of my proposal be hate by pimp website , one of which , Vivastreet , email its ally , urge they to mobilise against my amendment . a recent Sky News investigation find that over half of the 14 , 000 prostitution advert on Vivastreet display a phone number link to another advert on the site , which be a key red flag for organise sexual exploitation . I therefore find it reassure that those prostitution pedlar be unnerved by my proposal . I want to address a myth promote by defender of pimp website that shut down these site will make no difference to the scale of sexual exploitation take place and will , instead , simply drive it all into the dark web and make it hard to identify . that be patently nonsense , lack in logic and evidence . the dark web carry major disadvantage for both trafficker and sex buyer . it would require significant technical expertise to post , as well as locate and access , prostitution advert on the dark web , thereby substantially restrict the pool of exploiter able to engage in this crime . there be also no evidence that such a shift have take place in jurisdiction that have outlaw pimp website . the reality be that police simply can not keep up with the scale of sexual exploitation take place via pimp website on the open web . another myth I want to address be all too visible in the write submission oppose my amendment submit to the Public Bill Committee . every single one of the organisation who argue that pimp website should be allow to operate describe prostitution as work — as " sex work " . the idea that pay someone to perform sex act be an ordinary consumer activity — that order a woman online to perform a blow job be the equivalent of order a cappuccino — be a pernicious and harmful myth . prostitution be violence against woman . let we legislate to put pimp and trafficker out of business . we must protect individual from exploitation today , but also address the historical criminalisation of victim and abuse . I thank member on the Front Bench for their engagement on this issue and I look forward to work with they very closely . I rise to speak to new clause 12 and 123 in my name , new clause 43 in the name of the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) and new clause 121 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) . new clause 43 seek to commence the Sex - base Harassment in Public Act 2023 , which be take through the House as a private Member ' s Bill by Greg Clark , the predecessor of the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells . Greg do great work on this Bill . I be one of its supporter and a member of the Bill Committee . I speak on Second Reading , Third Reading and in Committee . it be a simple Act , which have cross - party support — it be not in any way a controversial piece of legislation . it correct an oversight in the law that have be miss out in a previous piece of legislation . as so often happen , a private Member ' s Bill require a statutory instrument to commence it , and that statutory instrument have not yet be lay in this House . I be sure the Minister be well aware of that and be seek to do so . this new clause would allow the Act to commence now , rather than require that statutory instrument , thereby save she a little bit of time . I hope , therefore , that she might look favourably on it . as I say , this be an Act that be support across the House . there be no Division on it ; it be very much something that we all want to see , so I hope that the Government accept the new clause and that the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells can follow on in the footstep of his predecessor in make sure that this Act of Parliament become live and real for the people who need it . let I turn now to new clause 121 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Gosport . I be almost disappointed not to be able to table this new clause myself , because it fit with the work that I have do previously on these issue . I be Secretary of State for Digital , Culture , Media and Sport when the Digital Economy Act 2017 introduce age verification for pornography . again , new clause 121 be a simple piece of legislation , which would make non - fatal strangulation a criminal act if in pornography . this do not impact on what people may wish to do in their private life , but it do mean that those image would not then be available to be see in pornographic film . it also mean that there be protection for child who may be look at this pornography — we do not want they to look at it , but we be realist and recognise that this happen — and that it do not normalise what be a really dangerous act , which should not be promote in any way . I know from experience that social medium company will remove content if it be illegal . they will not remove it if it be not . therefore this simple change would mean that the depiction of non - fatal strangulation would become illegal content and social medium company would therefore be force to act . I hope that this be something that can be support across the House . although I understand that we will be push to Division this evening , I do hope that the Minister can say something about the Government introduce something similar — perhaps in the other place — so that we can make sure that this inappropriate content be illegal and therefore not available to be see by child . let I turn now to the new clause in my name . I wish to start with new clause 123 , because my hon . friend the Member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) , who have be such a champion of this legislation , have to go to a Delegated Legislation Committee at 2 . 30 pm . I also wish he a very happy birthday . he be choose to spend his birthday in this Chamber and attend a DL Committee — what a hero ! again , I think that this new clause will have cros - party support . it concern the removal of parental responsibility for individual convict of sexual offence against child . when I have talk about this to colleague and ask they to consider support the new clause , they have be utterly amazed that anybody convict of a sexual offence against a child may be allow to have parental responsibility for their own child . that responsibility be stop only if the offence be commit against their own child . that can not be right . how can it be that a convict sex offender — somebody who have be convict of a sexual offence against a child — be allow to make parental decision about their own child ? my hon . friend ' s constituent have talk about this — I believe that they be know as " Bethan " in this situation — and have be a real champion on this issue . in this particular case , a man who be convict of rape a relative who be a child still have parental responsibility for his own child . that can not be acceptable . again , this feel like a piece of legislation where , at some point , we just fail to address this one issue . I hope , therefore , that this can be see as a defect in the legislation that we all agree should be correct . new clause 12 be a relatively simple amendment to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 , but it reflect a phenomenon that we simply do not know about when we introduce the Act 10 year ago . as the Minister on the Bill , I remember go through many definition of what constitute trafficking and exploitation , but , at the time , the phenomenon of orphanage trafficking be simply not know . that may be a shock to some in this Chamber , because there be such awareness of the issue in Australia and New Zealand but we simply do not know about it here . what happen be that institution that call themselves orphanage be set up , but they be not orphanage . when we think of orphanage , we think of a place where child with no parent be look after because the state do not have any other way of look after they . in this country and across the western world , we do not want to put child into such institution ; we want they to be in family - base setting ; we want to make sure that they be foster and that they have the right support . orphanage exist around the world , but some of they be not orphanage and more than 80 % of the child there be not orphan . they have be put into these institution , which be not register with the authority or anything else , simply to raise money . the Walk Free Foundation estimate that there be 5 . 4 million child globally live in those institution — that be horrify . when it be put to people that 5 million child , over 80 % of whom have parent , have be take from their parent purely for the purpose of raise money , there be utter disbelief . how can this possibly be the situation today ? it be estimate that christian church in the United States give $ 3 . 3 billion per year to institution that be not orphanage . they be simply there to raise money . imagine be on a cruise around south - east Asia and one of the excursion be to view an orphanage — this do happen to a friend of mine — and to pay money for the privilege of read story to the child . how cruel be that ? this be a child who have be put in an institution . perhaps their family believe that they be put there for a well life — for an education . I do not necessarily blame the family , but these child be there simply to raise money . a busload of tourist — kind western people — turn up , and sit down to read a story to these child and then give money . these poor child be leave . they do not have any further contact with these people . gap - year student can be involve . they may have decide to spend a bit of their gap year work in one of these institution , which be in South America , Africa , or south - east Asia — across the world . those young people be do what they believe be the right thing — voluntourism , I think it be call — but they be be exploit . these child be there simply to raise money . my amendment would add one further definition into section 3 of the Modern Slavery Act . it would add orphanage trafficking to the definition of modern slavery exploitation . it would just mean that we , in our legislation , would reflect orphanage trafficking within the law . there be more that we need to do , but this be a simple first step to make sure that it be recognise . that would mean that , first , we would be raise awareness of the matter , but secondly , individual and organisation that wish to give money to these orphanage would potentially be in breach of the Modern Slavery Act and step could be take against they . I would not wish to criminalise anybody who want to do the right thing for people , but it be important that we pass this measure . we would also be only the second country in the world to take such action , because the only other country that have legislate on this be Australia . I pay tribute here to Linda Reynolds — I think that she have just stop be a senator — who take up this issue . she be an incredible woman . she take up the issue and have go around the world with it . she force legislative change in Australia and have take it up with the Inter - Parliamentary Union , which , as a result , have issue a lawmaker ' guide to stop orphanage trafficking and pass motion and resolution to raise awareness . Linda Reynolds be the hero on this issue . she go to one of those orphanage and walk away say , " this be not right . this do not feel like an authentic place . these child don ' t seem to be be look after . this be not something I want to support . " I understand that this new clause will not be select for a separate decision , but I ask the Minister , when sum up , to reflect on step that the Government may take and whether they might consider bring this measure back in the other place . I will introduce private member ' Bills on it and continue try to amend legislation . I hope that , at some point , the Government will be able to get the collective responsibility agreement they need so that we can reflect this heinous crime in our legislation . I appreciate be call to speak , Madam Deputy Speaker . I also really appreciate be able to follow in the wake of my two friend — my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) and the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) — who have be incredible campaigner on these issue . I know from first - hand experience of meet the victim and survivor they speak about that there be gape hole in our legislation . I hope that the House will support their amendment , because that would do something to close they . I rise to speak first about my new clause 9 , 10 and 18 , which seek to well protect child victim of sexual and criminal exploitation and empower our frontline responder to keep they safe . I welcome the Government ' s introduction of the mandatory duty to report , which be recommendation 13 of the independent inquiry into child sexual exploitation , as it have the potential to strengthen our child protection system . however , follow detailed conversation and meeting with Rotherham and Sheffield NHS safeguarding staff , I share their concern about the fine detail of its implementation . to put it bluntly , the duty will not protect child as intend unless mandate reporter be adequately train . recognise , report and — crucially — respond to child sexual abuse be far from straightforward , so to prevent overwhelming an already strained system , all those under the duty must be train to know what to look for and how to report it . let I give an example . a nursery nurse might see bruise around the genital area of a toddler , and with the fear — I put it that way — of her duty on mandatory reporting , she will report it to the hotline or directly to the NHS safeguarding team , which be absolutely the right thing to do . however , toddler fall over and they fall in awkward place , so that nursery worker need to have the skill and experience to be able to know when it be appropriate to report and when it be not appropriate , along with what evidence to gather and what not to . at the moment , I be scared that everything will be report and that the system , which be there to protect and safeguard those child , will be unable to cope . I hope that a standard training package will be give to all people who fall under the duty . I will now turn to new clause 10 and 18 , on child criminal exploitation , which I know the safeguarding Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , be very familiar with , I have campaign on this with she for many year in previous Parliaments . as Baroness Casey ' s report state , right now criminally exploit child be at risk of prosecution rather than protection . these new clause seek to change that . they have the backing of Action for Children . ECPAT UK , Barnardo ' s and many other child ' s charity . in 2024 alone , more than 2 , 891 child be refer to the national referral mechanism as potential child victim of criminal exploitation , but many more end up in courtroom , not safeguard system . as my police chief say to I , it be deeply sad that the first time we see these criminally exploit child be when we be look to criminalise they . we can not get above this and ahead of it . clause 38 rightly create a new offence of CCE , recognise the severity of that abuse . however , without correspond change to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 , legal protection remain inconsistent and inadequate . new clause 10 seek to fix that . in a similar vein , new clause 18 would insert a definition of " child criminal exploitation " alongside the offence in clause 38 . evidence from the Jay review into criminal exploitation of child demonstrate that the current lack of a definition contribute to significant inconsistency in practice across the country and persistent failure to identify child as victim . I see that time and again in Rotherham , with young , exploit girl all too often refer to as " child prostitute " and not give the support they need . the shift start only after we get the statutory definition for child sexual exploitation . clear , consistent legislation empower professional to intervene early , prevent inappropriate prosecution and ensure that exploit child receive the safeguarding support that they need . I turn to my amendment 9 , on register sex offender , which be support by 39 mp from across the party . it will not be new to many in the House as I have bring it up in the last three Parliaments . between 2019 and 2022 , 11 , 500 sex offender be prosecute for failure to notify change of information . the same ongoing pattern allow offender to slip through the crack , with over 700 go completely miss in those year . I welcome the new measure in the Bill that require some offender to seek police authorisation before apply to change their name on UK passport and drive licence , which will genuinely make a difference . however , I remain deeply concerned that many of the new measure lack strength and could lead to confusion . clause 80 state that sex offender must give seven day ' notice of use a new name but do not define what " use " mean . the amendment seek to provide much - need clarity . it would require offender to notify the police of an intention to change their name seven day before do so by deed poll . that would allow vital time for the authority to conduct appropriate risk assessment . More than that , I want to draw attention to the fact that the Bill still rely too heavily on a sex offender do the right thing , which be something they rarely do . finally , I will speak to my new clause 99 and 100 , in my capacity as Chair of the International Development Committee . last week my Committee publish its report on international humanitarian law . it be vital that those responsible for attack on aid worker and unlawful blockage of humanitarian assistance be bring to justice . throughout the inquiry , it become apparent that the UK need power to exercise universal jurisdiction over crime of genocide , crime against humanity and war crime . there must be no safe haven for those who commit such heinous crime . my new clause would allow the relevant authority to prosecute people suspect of those crime without any requirement for a connection to the UK . at a time when the legitimacy and impartiality of some international court be be question , the UK must stand firm in support of these important mechanism for accountability , to prevent impunity for serious violation of international humanitarian law while ensure that we have the domestic power need to hold perpetrator to account , no matter where their crime be committed . I rise to speak to new clause 5 , which stand in my name and be support by hon . friend in different political position across the House . but , before I do so , I want to congratulate the Government — that be unusual from the opposition , but I will do so anyway . I think that the Minister will know what I be about to say . the cuckooing amendment , which be move in the last Parliament — the previous Government and she , in particular , be in discussion on that — have be passporte through , as it be , so that cuckooing will be a criminal offence . that will hugely help those who have their house take over — the vulnerable and the elderly — and , where crime be commit from those house , the police will have a reason to go in without explicit knowledge of the crime be commit other than the cuckooing . to that extent , I thank the Government for make that a law . hopefully it will go through without too much problem in the other place . I and many other appreciate that enormously . new clause 5 be consequential to an amendment to an early Bill on reckless and dangerous cycling , because there be no offence that be relevant to that and people be be kill and injure as a result of cyclist ' bad behaviour on the road . one person in particular who campaign for that amendment be Matt Briggs , and he be the reason that I bring that amendment forward . the Government accept that amendment and it be now bind into legislation . however , there be an issue at the time about the danger of e - bike . we know from talk to the police that e - bike be now become responsible for some of the bad crime on the street , involve antisocial and threaten behaviour . they be silent and they can creep up on people rather quickly , and a lot of thing that be be snatch by people on motorised scooter be now be snatch use e - bike . I shall come back to the question of illegal e - bike in a second , but the user of legal e - bike be as much of a problem , because they be not include in any relevant legislation that would have allow they to be prosecute by the police for offence such as dangerous or reckless cycling , as would normally happen for bicycle user . e - bike be a huge and grow problem . in 2022 , there be 462 pedestrian casualty in the UK result from collision with pedal cycle , include e - bike . recent datum indicate that there be 11 , 266 incident involve e - bike and e - scooter in 2023 - 24 , an increase from 10 , 000 incident in the previous year . while this rise partly reflect the grow number of rider , it also highlight concern regard the reckless behaviour of a number of those user . e - bike rider be approximately 57 % more likely to be involve in accident , compare with traditional cyclist , and e - bike accident be nearly twice as likely to cause severe injury , and nearly twice as likely to require surgical intervention compare with conventional bicycle accident . that be not to mention the illegal e - bike and the enhanced e - bike , which the Minister will know be the cause of even more significant problem . we table new clause 5 because it be our impression that the original cycling amendment that be now law do not deal properly with e - bike . however , after a long debate with the Department for Transport and a heavy look through some of the legislation that already exist , I have finally agree that the definition under the cycling element of the original amendment which be accept by the Government incorporate e - bike . I have a similar concern about mobility scooter . obviously , they be a fabulous tool , enable so many in our constituency to get out and about , but the number of serious injury cause by mobility scooter have go up by nearly 60 % in the last 10 year , and the number of fatality have double . these heavy class 3 mobility scooter , which can go up to 8 mph and travel on the road , be not subject to insurance rule and can not be penalise under dangerous driving regulation . do my right hon . friend agree that this be something the Government also need to consider very carefully ? I would really love the Minister to look at whether there be any legislation that would be implementable in case such as these . my hon . friend be right , and I hope the Government will respond to that . however , she will forgive I if I focus on the essence of new clause 5 , which be e - bike . the definition of a legal e - bike be one that use pedal and also use electricity to assist the cyclist . all the other one be illegal . this bring I to the problem that , if this measure be go to go through into law , as it will , will the Government press the police to start arrest and prosecute not only the people who deliberately use e - bike for nefarious purpose but more importantly , those who just cycle dangerously on footpath ? e - bike be now more dangerous than bicycle in the sense that they be e - bicycle and therefore get up to high speed . even though the speed be suppose to be govern , they be still high than most cyclist will get up to in the normal act of pedal their way to work . my right hon . friend and I have a discussion about this early . on the subject of illegal e - bike , do he agree that we need to clamp down on the illegal conversion kit that be readily accessible online which allow an ordinary bicycle to be convert to do anything up to 30 or 40 mph ? I table a write question about that , and the Government say that it be for the Office for Product Safety and Standards and local authority trading standard to enforce that , but could the Government do more to crack down on it ? it be funny that my hon . friend raise that point , because I be just about to get on to it . I be glad he have pinch my speech , but we be on the same side , so let I thank he for get ahead of I . I reinforce that point : the Government now need to decide whether to do something about that issue in the other place . all non - bicycle electricity - support cycle be legal , but all the other be either illegal or have to be use on the road and therefore have to qualify for road use , which mean in many case take instruction and pass a test , or treat the e - bike like a car or a motorcycle . the problem be that most people do not know that . they be either ignorant of it or they deliberately do not care , and they can buy these illegal bike in lot of legal shop in the UK . it seem bizarre that we be allow people to buy these bike — many be not bike ; they could be board or all sort of contraption — and they then think they be able to use they . Most people do not check up on the highway code or the law ; they just get on and use they . they be deeply dangerous to themselves , but also to other road user . I would press the Government to look at this again in the other place — it be too late to do it here — to see whether there be some way in which sell these thing to people without proper licence could be make illegal . I have listen to the right hon . Gentleman ' s speech with genuine interest . this be not a party political point at all . be there perhaps work that could be do on a public information campaign to make people aware of these bike ? as he have just say , many people do not realise that they be illegal . if they can buy they in legal shop , they do not realise that they be do anything wrong in the first place . do he agree that a public campaign like that would be welcome ? I be all in favour of public campaign and I agree with the hon . Gentleman that it would be a very good idea for people to know that what they be buy be illegal . I suspect many of they already do so . that notwithstanding , if such a campaign could be back up by a penalty for sell illegal bike in shop , that would be a far well way of deal with it . right now , lot of kid do not know that the bike be illegal , and they go and take these thing and they can pay for they , and that be where the danger come from . we be shut the door too late . these kid have go on to the road , they have create an accident and they have kill themselves . that be too late for we . what we need to do be get ahead of this and try to figure it out completely . the final bit of this issue be the fact that people can change the monitor inside the box , even on the legal bike , and lot of they do so . we see they go down the road at 30 mph , which be incredibly dangerous . I be a motorcyclist , I have to say , but member should not go look for the leather jacket ; I leave it at home . oh no ! Don ' t get excited — it ' s not that great ! motorcyclist have to be test even more than car driver . there be balance test and they have to know everything like that . this be absolutely critical , because it be a slightly more dangerous mode of transport — more exciting , yes , but more dangerous . someone can not buy a motorcycle in a shop and take it away unless they be able to show their licence and that they be qualified to ride that bike , and that really require instruction , but people can buy e - bike — these electric vehicle — without any sort of licence . it seem bizarre that that should be allow . even though we want people not to use petrol , diesel and all the rest of it because of the environment , this go beyond that . be the right hon . member aware of Simon Cowell ' s campaign ? he purchase an electric bike , flip over backwards and almost break his back . that be definitely a clear indication of how dangerous these bike can be . these bike often accelerate fast , and only someone who be use to ride something that can move quickly on two wheel can do that . if not , they will go off the back . in a car , they would be restrain by the seat , but that be not the case on a bike or motorcycle . know that do take some instruction — be ready , lean into it and all the rest of it . my main point be that that be a good illustration of how we be be a bit too casual about these mode of transport , and too many young kid do not understand that they should have some training . for their sake , we should do more on this issue . my right hon . friend have be generous with take intervention . I support his amendment and note that his amendment helpfully include e - scooter , because there be a real problem . as e - scooter do not meet the criterion in the Highways Act 1980 , they be effectively ban . when I speak to the hard - work police in Waterlooville , they say that e - scooter be ban in public area . we have a real problem with illegal usage in public area and in the shopping centre . however , people do not know that , and we need the law to be more proactive , deliberate and expressive , and that be why an amendment like this be right . be there anything he would like to add on the issue of e - scooter ? I bow before my right hon . friend ' s great knowledge in these matter , have head up the Department . I simply say that for this particular purpose , I agree with she . I be urge the Government to take this matter away and look at it in the other place . although I will not press my amendment , because legal bike be incorporate in the early cycling amendment that I put forward and the Government accept , we need more work on illegal bike and e - scooter . my worry , as I have say again and again , be that people can buy these thing without any qualification whatsoever , whereas if I as a motorcyclist buy a bike , I have to be able to demonstrate that I be qualified to ride it away from the shop . People be not require to do so with e - bike and e - scooter , so there be a peculiarity . everywhere else in our legislation , we follow through . this one have drop through the grid , and I therefore urge the Minister and the Department to look closely at the matter and see whether we can define that well in the other place and ensure that shop be unable to sell those bike . I will not press this new clause because I think we be at the right place so far with the Government . I will speak to new clause 23 , 24 and 25 in my name . new clause 23 and 24 propose restriction on the delivery and display of pointed knife to avoid death and serious injury from knife attack . new clause 25 repeal certain unnecessary and unlawful punitive measure direct against Roma , Gypsy and Traveller community . I be grateful for the interest the Minister have show in these matter and for meet I to discuss they . I do not intend to press they to a vote , but I look forward to her response as to how they may be progress . I support many other amendment and new clause to the Bill . I have sign new clause 13 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) and new clause 155 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) on set up an economic crime fighting fund . I of course congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) on her new clause 1 which be debate and pass yesterday . on Second Reading , I express a general concern that the necessary and complex legislation affect the criminal justice system set out in the Bill and in other Bills and report in this Session would place an even great strain on an already creak system . I will not repeat what I say then , but I hope and trust that Ministers from the Home Office and the Ministry of Justice be work together to ensure that resource be in place to deal with the unintended consequence when supply in one part of the criminal justice system cause demand in another . More police number mean more arrest , prosecution , conviction and incarceration , but early release or community alternative to custody can create more work for probation and for the police . new clause 23 and 24 would change the sell practice of manufacturer and retailer in the following way . first , they would prevent the delivery of lethal point knife to domestic premise , remote locker and collection point . nothing in they would prevent the delivery of pointed knife to chef , butcher , fishmonger or any other commercial enterprise that use pointed knife in the course of business . secondly , they would prevent the display of pointed knife in shop , but would allow safe , rounded knife to be openly display in shop , and deliver by courier or mail with minimal restriction . there be three key driver of the proposal . Home Office statistic show that two people be kill by kitchen knife every week . they also show that in homicide case in which a pointed weapon be use , over half of those weapon be kitchen knife . research from De Montfort University show that it be the point of knife that kill . safe , rounded knife may injure , but they do not penetrate clothing , let alone artery or vital organ . we be approach the one - year anniversary of the Southport killing . the Dunblane killing lead to change in the law on the sale of gun . Southport should be the Dunblane moment for knife . I welcome Ronan ' s law and the Government ' s amendment to the Bill to impose enhanced age verification , but those amendment do not go far enough ; more could and should be do . no reputable manufacturer or retailer will be prosecute if these new clause become law . indeed , they would make it easy for reputable manufacturer and retailer to market and sell rounded kitchen knife . any homeowner would still be able to purchase a pointed kitchen knife by mail order . they would simply have to collect their purchase in store , where more effective face - to - face age verification can take place . knife harm be a complex issue . there be no single , simple solution , but these new clause would help reduce the harm cause by knife , whether by criminal activity , accident or self - harm . I support my hon . friend ' s new clause . in fact , when I be Minister for Young Citizens and Youth Engagement , we pose this question of whether there should be round knife . I be glad to see that the debate have move on , because at that point , people find the idea that this would help solve the knife crime problem almost comical , so I thank he for pursue this issue . when it be people like I propose it , it be regard as comical , but now Idris Elba be in favour of it , as well as expert across the field . I pay tribute to not just those celebrity , but victim and expert , particularly those on the Safer knife group , of which I be member . it look at the legal , medical and psychological effect of knife crime , and suggest practical way of not eliminate but reduce the number of death and serious injury . new clause 25 seek to repeal draconian police power relate to unauthorised encampment . those power be introduce to the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 by the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , which become law under the previous Government . these punitive and hostile power lead to the victimisation of Romani , Gypsy and Irish Travellers , who be among the most marginalised group in UK society . I be clear that Traveller and minority group absolutely do have right , but they also have responsibility . when this law be put in place , there be good reason for it : to redress some of the imbalance . do the hon . Gentleman agree that repeal this law would leave our community unprotecte against unauthorised Traveller encampment ? in area like mine , the police become involved in a game of cat and mouse . excrement , litter and bad be leave in our community . would not a repeal leave the police with no power to tackle the issue ? I be afraid that be the sort of nonsense that I hear a lot of the time . let I read to the right hon . Lady some of the measure that be in force before the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act be pass : temporary stop notice , injunction to protect land from unauthorised encampment , licensing of caravan site , possession order , interim possession order , local byelaw , the local authority power to direct unauthorised camper to leave land , address obstruction to the public highway , plan contravention notice , enforcement notice and retrospective planning , stop notice , breach of condition notice , power of entry on to land , power of the police to direct unauthorised camper to leave land , and police power to direct trespasser to an alternative site . that be the position before that Act come into effect . there be ample power to deal with these matter . rise — no , I will not give way again . frankly , I find the right hon . Lady ' s last intervention a bit beyond the pale , so I be not give she another opportunity . I be afraid that the sort of information she peddle lead to the situation that we be in . the constant threat of criminalisation of nomadic lifestyle have a devastating impact on family . that be why human right campaigner and international body , include the Council of Europe and the United Nations , have raise concern about the legality of the provision that I be address . the hon . Member have just paint a complex legislative picture . do he not agree that there be a need for the 2022 legislation , because all the measure that he have just read out simply be not work ? the power be there , but we must look at their implementation . I be always sympathetic to the hon . Gentleman , because he be such a good opponent for I at two election , and I take to heart the measured way in which he put his point , but to counter what he say , in May 2024 , follow a judicial review of part 4 of the 2022 Act bring by Wendy Smith against the Home Office , the High Court issue a declaration of incompatibility with the Human Rights Act 1998 . the Court find that certain provision on the extension of a ban on return to a particular area from three month to 12 month constitute unjustified discrimination against Gypsies and Travellers . despite that , the power remain in force , and although the declaration of incompatibility with our law relate only to the provision I just mention , I put it to the Minister that all of part 4 could be scrap without any detriment to the enforcement of previous law . Police and local authority already have a whole spectrum of other power , as I have set out , which they can and do use against encampment . if they be fail to use those , it be for they to say why . I also know that the police do not seek those power ; they be simply impose on they . the Crime and Policing Bill present the perfect opportunity for the Government to put this right by repeal part 4 of the 2022 Act , which , let we remember , allow police to ban Gypsies and Travellers from an area , to arrest and fine they , and even to seize their home . I hope to receive positive news today , but if my right hon . friend the Minister wish to discuss these matter far , I would be happy to engage in that discussion — I have great support from Friends , Families and Travellers , and other excellent group represent the Roma Gypsy and Traveller community — to see how the law can be make fair to nomadic and non - nomadic community . that be what be be ask for here . frankly , at the moment the law do not create a balance ; it create a bias one way . I rise to speak in support of new clause 41 , which be in my name , and in the name of other . it be a very simple amendment that would require his Majesty ' s Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire and Rescue Services to include firearm licence in their PEEL — police effectiveness , efficiency and legitimacy — obligation . I declare an interest as chairman of the all - party parliamentary group on shooting and conservation , and as a firearm owner . I first thank the Minister for Policing and Crime Prevention for attend our most recent meeting of the APPG to answer a range of question from our member ; we be very grateful for her time . I share her commitment to protect public safety through sensible firearm law and an effective and efficient firearm licensing system . it be not in the interest of the public or the shoot community for the wrong people to have gun in their possession . that be why I be propose the new clause . member will be aware that the firearm license system in the UK be a postcode lottery . with 43 separate licencing authority , inconsistency in the application of the law , guidance and service be endemic across the system . a quarter of police force be take a year or more to process application for certificate , with delay across the system . gloucestershire constabulary — the force that I know well — recently put out a statement say that it be not accept any new firearm licence application for two year , due to a lack of train firearm officer . I intervene , and the police act quickly to reverse the decision , set up a gold command , and I now receive regular update from the team . however , that wait be not good enough , especially when the Government be impose a 133 % hike in fee . an inefficient and ineffective licensing department endanger the public . the inquest on the tragic murder in Keyham , Plymouth , reveal that the Devon and Cornwall police firearm license department , which have issue a certificate to the murderer , remove his firearm after an assault but , unbelievably , give it back to he once he have do an anger management course . the department be describe as a " chaotic shamble " that could not operate its own risk matrix . it identify the murderer as low - risk , when in reality he be high - risk and should never have receive a certificate . I appreciate that the Minister have give assurance that datum on licensing department waiting time , for both renewal and new application , be now be make available to the public . however , that do not go far enough to ensure that police force take their inefficiency seriously and put an action plan in place to improve department across both England and Wales . PEEL inspection take place every year or so for every police force in England and Wales . they include theme such as treat the public fairly , respond to the public , and resource and value for money . firearm licensing come under all three category , yet there be no mention of it in any previously publish peel inspection . in addition , although the Minister have reassure we that all fund receive from the full cost recovery of firearm licensing will be ringfence for improve firearm license department , that be not guarantee . the British Association for Shooting and Conservation , which act as my secretariat on the APPG , write to all force when the increase in firearm licensing fee be impose , seek assurance that all fund would go to firearm licensing . to date , only a third of constabulary have give that assurance . include firearm license in PEEL inspection be a powerful way to ensure that police force be publicly accountable , fund properly and run efficiently for the benefit of public safety . new clause 41 be a sensible and proportionate probe amendment that I hope the Minister might feel able to accept , if it be to be table in the other place . I rise to speak in support of new clause 107 , which stand in my name , and to lend my support to other vital amendment , particularly those relate to protest right , joint enterprise , facial recognition and predictive policing technology . new clause 107 would require the Home Secretary to publish a comprehensive equality impact assessment within 12 month of the Bill become law . I acknowledge the initial equality impact assessment , but I must stress that they be no substitute for a thorough and ongoing review of how the power will be use and who they will affect . this Bill touch every part of our criminal justice system , from police power and sentencing to surveillance . if we know anything from decade of experience , it be that such legislation rarely land equally . we already know , for example , that black man be disproportionately stop and search ; that muslim community be target by counter - terrorism law ; and that ethnic minority community be more likely to face over - police , under - protection and systemic mistrust . we must also talk frankly about how the system fail woman , particularly in the context of violence against woman and girl . while the state have find countless new way to expand police power and increase maximum sentence , we be yet to find the will to use those power to properly protect woman : not when woman who report domestic abuse and sexual violence be ignore ; not when black , minoritise and working - class woman who report violence be dismiss ; and not when rape be effectively decriminalise , with case rarely make it to court . let we not forget those case that have shock the nation , the report that have expose misogyny , racism and abuse within police rank , and the institutional discrimination and failure that some force still fail to admit exist . we have a lot of work to do to rebuild trust between police and community , and that be why new clause 107 matter so much . if we be to hand over even more power to the police and the state , we also need to demand more scrutiny , accountability and transparency . we have to ask : what do this mean for woman , survivor and marginalise community ? a full post - legislative equality impact assessment will help to ensure that this House understand the real - world effect of the law it pass , particularly on woman , girl and those whose experience be shape by intersect inequality of race , class , immigration status and more . I voice my continued support for amendment relate to joint enterprise , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) . too many young people , disproportionately young black man , have be convict under joint enterprise simply for be present ; not for pull a trigger , wield a knife or plan a crime , but for be in the wrong place , with the wrong people , at the wrong time . sometimes that place just happen to be where they live . that doctrine rely on racist assumption about gang affiliation and collective guilt , and despite repeat warning from campaigner , academic and even senior judge , nothing have change . that be why these amendment be so important to review , to correct and to prevent any further injustice . I reaffirm my support for new clause 50 , which protect the fundamental right to protest . on the potential infringement of protest overall in the Bill , let I say that protest be not a nuisance but a vital part of democracy . whether it be the suffragette demand the vote , trade unionist fight for fair pay or black life Matter campaigner call for racial justice , every major advance in civil right have come through protest . I stand here as a black woman from a working - class background because of the organising , resistance and , yes , protest of those who come before I . any legislation that seek to silence dissent or to criminalise those who dare to challenge power must be wrong . if the history of protest have teach we anything , it be that the struggle of today be a mark of progress tomorrow . we must not continue the legacy of the previous Government , which chip away at civil liberty under the guise of public order . our job as lawmaker be to protect , not repress , the right to be hear . finally , I reiterate my concern about the provision in the Bill relate to facial recognition , artificial intelligence and predictive policing , address in new clause in the name of the hon . member for Leicester South ( Shockat Adam ) and for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) . these technology be not neutral : they be train on biased datum and deploy in biased way that pose a very real threat to civil liberty and racial justice . facial recognition have be show time and again to be less accurate in identify black and brown face . predictive policing draw on historically racist pattern of enforcement , and use that datum to justify further surveillance in the same community . this be automated injustice and if we pass the Bill without proper guardrail , we will be responsible for unleash technology that entrench discrimination in way that we do not yet fully understand and that those affect will feel for year to come . the role of this House be not just to pass law but to ensure that those law be just , their impact be fair and they reflect the value of equality and accountability that we all claim to stand for . that mean demand well protection for woman and girl , particularly in the face of state and police failure ; defend our right to protest ; end legal doctrine , such as joint enterprise , which sweep up the innocent with the guilty ; and put strict safeguard around surveillance technology , which be already disproportionately harm minoritise community . that would also mean put in place something like new clause 107 to ensure that we properly assess and monitor the real effect on the most marginalise in our community of the power that we grant in this House . I apply an immediate five - minute time limit . I rise to speak in favour of new clause 130 to strengthen the law on tool theft . in early May this year , I join police officer from Sidcup and Havering in a raid to uncover steal tool at a boot sale in east London . unlicensed boot sale be notorious for sell steal good . however , I be still astounded by what officer find . as they arrive in police van and unmarked car , there be a flurry of action among some trader : steal good be hide , a van try to flee and the key to vehicle crowd with tool be suddenly lose . but the police have strike quickly and in number . steal tool be uncover across trader ' stall , six arrest be make and , eventually , officer strike the mother lode — a van overflowing with steal tool . the raid take officer to a second site , where even more steal tool be uncover . over 1 , 650 steal tool be find , worth around half a million pound , on just one day . officer be even able to return some marked tool to their owner . the raid show why tradespeople must mark their tool properly . if they be mark with the like of dna tagging , the police can easily prove they be steal and lock up the thief responsible . they can also return the steal tool to the hard - work tradespeople across the country . but mark tool alone will not stop tool theft . van be be break into in broad daylight and tool sell openly across the country . it be a disgrace . the law must change to punish the thief responsible and crack down on the boot sale drive the crime wave . that be why I encourage all member to support new clause 130 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) . first , it would increase fine to well match the severity of the crime , reflect the cost of replace tool and repair damage to van and of lose work . do my hon . friend agree that accept the amendment be one way in which the Government could reach out to business and trader and show that they be on the side of local business and the people who get up every morning and go out to work — in effect , " white van man " — for whom tool be key to be able to do the job , as be the farm implement that be also subject to theft ? I thank my right hon . friend for her vital contribution . we must back the maker , not the law breaker , whether they be " white van man " or rural farmer who be have their tool steal . the impact on their ability to go to work be significant , but it also have an impact on their family because of their ability to buy food and other good . we must back the maker and not the law breaker . secondly , the Bill would impose tough sentence on thief by recognise the seriousness of the crime . finally , it would require council to create an enforcement plan to stop the sale of steal tool at boot sale . these be all necessary change to help stop tool theft across the country . tradespeople and industry can not afford parliamentary dither and delay . as campaigner , tradespeople , police expert and industry have tell we , action be need now . every 12 minute , a van be break into and tool be steal , cost tradespeople thousand of pound , hurt their mental health and stop they from earn a living . do my hon . friend agree that it be not just about theft from van ? this be about people ' s whole livelihood and ability to work . business can be strike down . do he agree that this be therefore worthy of its own offence ? I agree with my hon . friend ' s vital contribution . I will come on to a couple of the large impact . we often think about small business , but we have find from our roundtable that very large company also suffer a lot of damage . for example , on average Openreach van be hit three time a day , which delay the fibre rollout in rural community . over £ 2 million of survey equipment be steal from Balfour Beatty ' s van in just three month , impact hs2 , which we have discuss today . if any mps be unsure about the need to act now , they need to speak to Shoaib Awan , Frankie Williams , Sergeant Dave Catlow , PC Dan Austin and the team at SelectaDNA , Checkatrade and on the Tools , among many other who have work tirelessly on this issue . I thank they all , especially the Sidcup police team who be lead a lot of that hard work . I thank my hon . friend for give way ; he be make a very eloquent speech . will he acknowledge Alex Insley , from my constituency , who run a podcast for tradespeople and who bring this issue to my attention ? I applaud all the effort by podcaster and tradespeople who be go online and share their experience . any hon . member can look up the like of Stolen Tools UK or the Gas Expert on Instagram and they will see case , every single day , of people have their tool steal and the damage that be do to their financial and mental health . the impact of this on the wide economy be now so severe that we must act : Parliament must act across party to change the law — today , I hope . I also thank the police and crime commissioner across the country who be get stick into the problem . I have highlight example from the Met of Sidcup and Havering police force in particular , but I know that the pcc in Kent and Sussex be also do great work tackle this issue . as I have highlight , this be not a party - political issue and I appreciate the work of the hon . member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) in shine a spotlight on it . today we can work cross - party and get the law change now , and I hope , in all sincerity , that all mp get behind this amendment and that the Government can help we change the law today , get on the side of the maker and tackle the lawbreaker . I rise to speak in support of new clause 13 in my name and new clause 50 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) . new clause 13 propose to change the law on joint enterprise . for those who do not know , this be a century - old doctrine that allow multiple people to be convict of a crime , usually murder or manslaughter , even if only one person commit the fatal act . evidence demonstrate it lead to unjust conviction , disproportionately impact young black and working - class people , with young black man 16 time more likely to be convict under joint enterprise than their white counterpart . I thank all who support my private Member ' s Bill that have its Second reading in February 2024 and for their continue support for the campaign , particularly Joint Enterprise not guilty by Association . as a result of a judicial review bring by Liberty and JENGbA , the Crown Prosecution Service conduct a pilot survey of joint enterprise case , result in access to accurate datum and highlight the racial disparity that exist . case law on joint enterprise be reverse by a Supreme Court ruling in 2016 . the Jogee case identify how the law have take " a wrong turn " for 30 year . the Law Commission be now undertake a review of homicide and the sentencing framework for murder . it will examine the law on joint enterprise in light of the Supreme Court ruling on Jogee , with campaigner anticipate clear solution on the disparity and inequality . while I understand the Government have some reservation about my amendment , it be clear that there be recognition across the House that joint enterprise need to be fix . the prosecution of joint enterprise case be flawed and racialise . the 2016 Supreme Court ruling do not resolve the key problem with the law . speculative prosecution theory be accept in place of strong evidence . this allow and encourage racist stereotyping , use gang narrative to imply collective intent , and use a person ' s taste in music as evidence of be in a gang , with police be call as expert witness on drill music , which be a conflict of interest . art not evidence be make significant inroad in this space , propose a criminal evidence ( creative and artistic expression ) Bill to limit the admissibility of evidence of a person ' s creative and artistic expression in criminal proceeding and for connected purpose . the Westminster Commission on Joint Enterprise be gather evidence and will produce a report for the Government in 2026 . reform of joint enterprise be long overdue . it have go as far as it can in the court , and it be now for Parliament to act ; that be what the former Director of Public Prosecutions who be now the Prime Minister have say . new clause 50 would enshrine the right to protest in law . the purpose of this amendment be to keep public authority power proportionate and to uphold the right of our society to protest peacefully as a fundamental pillar of free and equal democracy . the right to protest and the freedom to express dissent go back century and be champion across the political spectrum . from the peasant revolt to the suffragette , we celebrate the great british tradition of direct action . so many of our freedom have be win this way , include worker ’ right . most recently , we have see the farmer protest outside Parliament , the mass trespass organise by the Ramblers ' Association in defence of our right to roam , strike worker , anti - war protester and beyond . million of people have march peacefully against the genocide in Gaza . thousand of disabled people have protest against propose welfare and disabled benefit change . we have see protester outside Parliament against the assist die Bill and yesterday pro - life protester gather outside this place . the ability to protest and freedom of expression and assembly be protect by article 10 and 11 of the european convention on human right and be enshrine in UK law . the plan demonstration outside the BBC headquarters in January demand impartial coverage of Israel ' s war in Gaza be ban by the Met police on the basis that the headquarters be in close proximity to a synagogue . this be after week of meeting and agreement of the route with the Met police . this be a serious infringement of our right to protest . if we can not protest outside the headquarters of our public broadcaster , what do that say about our democracy ? this should be of concern for all who believe in democracy and free society . the Government have a chance now to change course and roll back on these clampdown for our right and freedom , for our democracy . I rise to speak in support of new clause 43 in my name and in the name of the Chair of the Select Committee on Home Affairs the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) and of the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , both of whom I thank for their support . it be also co - sign by 100 member from across the House represent our entire political spectrum from almost every party , include many member of the Labour party . new clause 43 seek to do something very simple : to commence the Protection from Sex - base Harassment in Public Act 2023 , which have already receive Royal Assent . this Act simply criminalise the harassment of people in public base on their sex , but this be a crime that overwhelmingly affect woman so this really be about the criminalisation of harassment of woman in public . the Act start life as a private Member ' s Bill lay by my constituency predecessor , Greg Clark . he be approach by a sixth - former in our constituency who say that she have be harass while come home from school . one third of schoolgirl in the United Kingdom say they have be harass in their school uniform . we should be ashamed of that statistic , and Greg be ashamed and he take action . the 2023 Act , as pass , create a specific offence of harassment on account of someone ' s sex . like the new clause I rise to speak in support of , it receive cross - party support , include , it must be say , from the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , who be now the Minister for safeguarding and violence against woman and girl . the Act criminalise harass , follow and shout degrading comment and make obscene gesture at woman and girl in public with the deliberate intention of cause they harm or distress , and it carry a maximum sentence of two year . so I be quite disappointed and confuse by the interaction that I have have with the Government on this issue . every time I have press they for an update on commencement , I have not really receive a substantive answer . for example , eight month ago I ask a question in this House and receive a letter from the Government tell I that the Home Office be make all the necessary arrangement and that I would be contact when a commencement date be confirm . as a new MP , I think this be quite promising . five month ago , I table a write question and the Government respond say that they would publish next step at the early opportunity . then two week ago I receive a reply from the Government to a further communication state that an update on commencement would be provide in due course . each communication I receive from the Government be a little vaguer , a little bit less definitive about commencement . yesterday , at her instigation , I meet with the Minister for VAWG and I think , " fantastic , finally we will get some answer . " but there be nothing , I be afraid — there be nada , zip . I gently ask the Minister present now — not the Minister for VAWG — what be the point in arrange a meeting if the Government be not go to say anything new to what they have previously say ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , a fellow member of the Select Committee on Defence , for give way , and I be proud to put my name to new clause 43 in his name . I also pay tribute to he for take forward Greg Clark ' s previous work in a very cross - party way for the benefit of the community . do he share my frustration and slight bewilderment at the way in which the Government appear to be block commencement ? in the Government ' s defence , I do not think that this be a difference in policy ; it be a difference in timing , but the timing seem to be very elastic . we seek a definitive time when the Act will be commence — perhaps the Minister can respond at the Dispatch Box . as somebody who be incredibly proud to work with the hon . Gentleman ' s predecessor on this legislation , have work for many , many year to recognise misogyny in our hate crime framework , let I say that it will be two year in September since this House agree to this legislation on a cross - party basis . it will be two year in September of the work be do , in theory , to be able to commence the legislation . many of we on the Government Benches be proud of our commitment to recognise misogyny in hate crime , so will the hon . Gentleman join I in say that we really want to understand what the barrier might be to get on with the job that we know across this House will keep woman and girl safe on our street ? I can actually give the hon . Lady a very specific time : it be 21 month to the day since this Act receive Royal Assent . if the Minister would be so gracious , we might have from she either a time for commencement or , as the hon . member for Walthamstow say , a specific problem that be stop the Act be commence , rather than some of the more general response we have have to date . I be doubly disappointed that although this Act be pass in a previous Parliament — express the unanimous will of Parliament , as it pass without a division — it be entirely commensurate with the Labour Government ' s policy to halve violence against woman and girl . harassment and violence be on a continuum and a spectrum . one of the thing we be try to do be to change the culture of man in how they act towards woman ; this Act be a part of that and really do contribute to the Labour Government ' s priority and manifesto . indeed , the Minister for VAWG sit on the Public Bill Committee for the Act in 2023 and say that the Labour party would work with the then Conservative Government to ensure that the Bill pass without a Division , and so it do . the Government have signal that they will vote against new clause 43 , which have be select for a vote tonight . when the new clause have cross - party support and the original Act have unanimous cross - party support , why will the Government vote against the new clause ? it seem to I that they be vote against their own manifesto and their own commitment while in opposition . that be difficult to understand , because I think we all want the same thing . I will conclude . implement the protection from Sex - base Harassment in Public Act be an important step in help the Labour Government to achieve their own manifesto commitment . let this not be another speech without action . I urge hon . and right hon . member to vote for new clause 43 . I rise to speak to new clause 47 in my name . this be a very simple new clause , in a way , about how we stop mobile phone that have be steal from be reconnecte to the cloud and sell on . if we can break that link , we can stop the proliferation of mobile phone theft , which have increase by 150 % . some 200 mobile phone be snatch every single day , and there have be a marked increase in Westminster . I know that a number of mp have have their mobile phone steal — some of they be sit not too far away from I . the amount of money in this crime be incredible . I do not believe phone manufacturer be that keen to stop this crime , because I feel it be part of their business model : when somebody have their mobile phone steal , they go and buy another mobile phone . new clause 47 say that once somebody ' s phone have be steal and they report it to the police , the police must report it to Apple , Google , Samsung or whoever , which then stop that phone from be reconnecte to the cloud . in effect , that phone would become inactive . if the manufacturer fail to do that within 48 hour , it would be fine £ 10 , 000 . we need to ensure that the manufacturer take this issue seriously , because they be not . here be the simple thing : if we want to stop mobile phone be steal to order , we need to ensure that the manufacturer take the issue seriously . we need to ensure that IMEI number be easily accessible , and we need to ensure that thief can not reconnect the mobile phone . I rise to speak to new clause 121 , which be table in my name and support by my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) and , I be very pleased to say , by member from both side of this Chamber . it would extend the definition of extreme pornography to include depiction of non - fatal strangulation , know as NFS . NFS be make a criminal offence in 2021 under the last government , not because we think the Government should necessarily stick their nose into what people want to get up to in the bedroom , but because abuser use non - fatal strangulation without consent , as it leave little visible injury and make it hard to prosecute under domestic abuse case . when a woman die from strangulation , it be become increasingly common to use the defence that it be a sex game go wrong . non - fatal strangulation have a life out there in the world of online porn . as we know , the UK be a large porn consumer . in any give month , more than 10 million adult in the UK will access online porn , and the vast majority of they will be chap . that be up to they — we do not judge — but we know from research that online porn be so widespread that one in 10 child have see it by the age of nine . unfortunately , it be the guide that many young people use to learn about sex . that be why I be extremely worried that non - fatal strangulation have be find to be rife on porn site . evidence have show that it be directly influence the sexual behaviour of young man , who be non - consensually strangle young woman during consensual sex . recent polling have suggest that 17 % of 16 to 34 - year - old have be strangle without give consent during consensual sex . we be not be prude in call for this misogynistic act to be ban in online porn . health expert warn that there be no way to strangle someone without risk , give that blood and airflow may both be restrict . a person can become unconscious within 10 second of be choke , and within 17 second they can have a seizure due to lack of oxygen . death can occur within 150 second of be render unconscious . almost 20 % of the woman kill in the UK since 2014 be strangle by an intimate partner . perpetrator who choke their partner be seven time more likely to kill they . I be sure the Minister will agree that it be alarming to hear report of young man and boy seek advice on how they can safely strangle their partner in bed and that girl be expect to accept that kind of behaviour . there be even a report last year , which the Minister may have hear about , of draft personal , social , health and economic education guidance from a Welsh local authority include safe choke during sex for a child sex education class . we need to send a signal that strangle your partner in bed be not safe — it can be a precursor to coercive , abusive behaviour . I know that the Government also want to send that signal , because in February they say , in their response to an independent review commission by the previous Government : " the government will take urgent action to ensure pornography platform , law enforcement and prosecutor be take all necessary step to tackle this increasingly prevalent harm . " I therefore urge the Minister to support my new clause 121 , which set out one of the necessary step refer to in the Government ' s response . we need to back this amendment , ban this harmful practice , and send out a very strong message that depiction of non - fatal strangulation in porn normalise something that be not normal and be not safe . I rise to speak to new clause 155 , which stand in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) and be support by the all - party parliamentary group on anti - corruption and responsible tax . I welcome the Bill for its clear and ambitious strategy to tackle antisocial behaviour and crime , but if we want truly safe street , we must also step up our effort to tackle financial and economic crime . that be the aim of our amendment , which be support by at least 30 member from across the House . economic crime be now the most commonly experience crime in the UK , account for more than 40 % of all report incident , yet we invest just 0 . 05 % of gdp in enforcement . that be not sustainable and these crime be not victimless — they erode public trust , exploit our financial institution , and hollow out high street and community . in my constituency of Kensington and bayswater , from Earl ' s Court Road to Queensway , Notting Hill Gate and Portobello Road , resident and small business owner be feed up with the proliferation of suspicious , cash - intensive business such as candy store , low - grade souvenir shop , Harry Potter shop and barbershop . these business be more than just an eyesore ; I hear persistent concern about vat evasion , rate avoidance , and even troubling link to serious organise crime and money laundering . for those reason , I be very encourage by Operation Machinize , the National Crime Agency - lead crackdown on barbershop suspect of launder criminal fund early this year . I take this opportunity to put on record my thank to the leadership of the NCA and the Serious Fraud Office , and to their frontline staff ; they have engage closely with the APPG on anti - corruption and responsible tax , which I chair . those organisation be do excellent work , but they can not tackle this problem alone . we need proper cross - Government co - ordination and resource for enforcement . new clause 155 would require the Government to assess the option for create an economic crime fighting fund . it would be a pool fund finance by a share of the asset already recover through enforcement — confiscation , fine and defer prosecution agreement . it would not be new money ; that money be recover by our enforcement agency , but currently it be return to the Treasury and often leave unspent due to outdated annularity rule . in 2022 , for instance , the NCA have to return £ 15 million of recover criminal asset because it could not spend the money fast enough . that be inefficient and perverse . such a fund would create a virtuous cycle , with more enforcement , more recovery and great deterrence . the SFO return £ 3 for every £ 1 invest , which be smart economic and a compelling argument for long - term , sustainable resourcing . with the Financial Action Task Force review on the horizon , the UK need to demonstrate that it have the financial and technical capacity to take this issue seriously . otherwise , we risk fall behind our global partner in the fight against corruption and illicit finance . I look forward to the forthcoming publication of the Government ' s anti - corruption strategy , and I have value the opportunity to work closely with the anti - corruption champion , Baroness Hodge , in shape that strategy . the Foreign Secretary be also right to make it his mission to position the UK as the global capital of anti - corruption , and to commit to a summit on financial crime next year . the ambition be clear , but we must now match it with resource , co - ordination and reform . very briefly , I will highlight an area in which this Bill will make a real difference . the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) refer to new clause 5 . many resident of Kensington and bayswater have contact I about the dangerous and antisocial use of illegally modify e - bike , especially by delivery driver . that include speeding , reckless pavement riding and off - road use . I be a cyclist — unlike the right hon . Gentleman , I be not a motorcyclist — and I support active travel and safe cycling , but what we be see be dangerous , and resident have have enough . as such , I be glad that the Bill will give the police the power to seize and destroy illegally modify e - bike within 48 hour , build on power that already exist under section 59 of the Police Reform Act 2022 . I thank the Minister for recently confirm to I that delivery e - bike will be cover by the new provision , and for take into account the concern of my community . I hope she will look kindly on our request for support in sustainably fund the fight against economic crime . I rise to speak in support of Liberal Democrat new clause 83 , 84 , 85 and 86 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) . I also commend my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) on his new clause 43 . represent one of the most rural constituency in the UK , I know just how deeply rural crime affect my constituent ' life and livelihood . I be not talk about the occasional petty theft from a property ; the problem we face be calculate organise crime , and it be devastate North Cornwall ' s farmer , small business and entire community in our rural area . take the farmer in St Kew who lose more than £ 3 , 000 - worth of tool and equipment in a single night , or the farming couple in Blisland who have two of their quad bike steal , worth £ 15 , 000 . in that case , the police do not even arrive until three day later . to this day , the couple have hear nothing more . that be not to blame our hard - work local constable , who be stretch to breaking point . it be no wonder that 86 % of countryside resident say that rural crime be harm their mental wellbeing , and these be not isolate incident . they be all part of a grow pattern that successive government have allow to thrive under their watch . new clause 83 would finally extend the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 to cover GPS unit , which be some of the most commonly steal piece of farm tech . separately , new clause 84 would establish a dedicated rural crime taskforce , on which the Liberal Democrats have long campaign . it be work in Scotland and a handful of regional police force , so it be time that the government develop and roll out a properly fund and equip taskforce nationwide . I be pleased that , after year of pressure from I and my liberal Democrat colleague , the Government have finally announce that they will be commit to a full rural crime strategy . I hope that the Minister can today update the House on its timing . strategy alone , however , will not stop theft ; it must come with proper enforcement . that be why new clause 85 and new clause 86 matter . they would guarantee minimal level of neighbourhood police and ensure that every local authority area have officer exclusively dedicate to community - base work . in Cornwall , the police be do all they can , but when the force get less money per head than almost anywhere else in England , it be not enough . officer be overstretch and underfunded . we need boot on the ground , with officer who understand the rural landscape they be serve . that be why I urge the House to back these amendment , for the tradesman who have lose their tool , for the farmer who have lose their machinery and vehicle , and for every rural community that have lose faith that justice will ever be do . separately , new clause 87 and 88 would make it a criminal offence for water company to breach pollution performance commitment and would finally hold senior executive personally liable for their failure . in North Cornwall , my constituent be live with the consequence of systematic pollution for profit . in 2024 , South West Water issue more than 3 , 000 sewage alert in its region , include 540 during the official bathing season and a staggering 2 , 600 outside of it . this be a routine and preventable environmental harm . South West Water pledge to significantly reduce its sewage discharge , but freedom of information request show that it increase its discharge by a shocking five time last year versus the previous year , and the human cost be real . in Widemouth Bay , my three - year - old constituent Finley become severely ill with diarrhoea and vomiting after play on the beach . a friend ' s child who be there that same day suffer similar symptom , and I be contact at one of my surgery a few week ago by a teenage girl who require hospital admission after surf in Harlyn bay . in St Eval , I deal with resident report brown water come from their tap . as a result of crack at Bears Down reservoir due to South West Water ' s lack of maintenance , many have no water for day , and the compensation from South West Water be £ 50 a household . the leadership behind these constant and shocking failure continue to be reward . Susan Davy , the chief executive of Pennon Group , which own South West Water , be pay a total of £ 860 , 000 in 2024 . that be a small increase of £ 300 , 000 from the year before . our beach , river and family be be fail and let down , especially by the last Conservative Government and now by this Government . that be why these new clause offer a clear message — order . I call Rachel Taylor . on 30 April 1999 , three nail bomb go off in London , kill four and injure 140 . one of they explode at Brick Lane , the hub of London ' s Bengali community ; one explode in Soho , at the Admiral Duncan pub , the heart of London ' s gay district ; and one explode in Brixton , in an attack on south London ' s black community . the sick terrorist who commit those evil act be motivate by hatred . he hate Bengalis and black people because of their race . he hate LGBT people because of who they love and how they live their life . he hate those group because they be different from he . he hate they because of who they be . I raise that appalling incident to remind the House that hatred come in many form , but whoever in our society it be against , we must all stand equally strongly against it . we must have hate crime law that show that whether the hatred be for someone ' s race , religion , sexual orientation , gender identity or disability , Britain be a country that will not tolerate it ; that all hatred be equal ; and that all those who commit vile act of hatred will face the same grave consequence . I regret to say that that be not currently the case . today the law recognise five category of hate crime — race , religion , sexual orientation , transgender identity and disability — but only two , race and religion , be treat as aggravate offence subject to strong sentencing power ; the other three be not . that discrepancy can not be right . we can not say , as a society , that some form of hatred be more evil than other . I be at university when section 28 be introduce — I remember it vividly . it be more than a law ; it be an attack on the right of people like I to live openly . it stigmatise lesbian , gay and bisexual people ; and it push we out of public life . I go into politic to fight that cruel law and everything it represent . Hate corrode our entire society . it do not just harm the individual who be target ; it create fear — fear to go outside , fear to speak up , fear to be see . it silence people . it make we all afraid . research by Stonewall find that less than half of LGBT + people feel safe hold their partner ' s hand in public . that be the impact that the fear of hatred have on people . it make they afraid even to show the world that they exist . unfortunately , far too many recorded crime never result in charge . of 11 , 000 disability hate crime record by police , 320 lead to prosecution . of 22 , 000 homophobic hate crime , 3 , 118 lead to prosecution . of 4 , 000 hate crime against transgender people , only 137 lead to prosecution . behind those statistic be real people , whose scar may heal on the outside but who may never recover from the fear and trauma that they have suffer . in 2024 , a teenage far - right extremist be jail for target and attack a transgender woman . along with another young man , he kick she to the ground in a park in Swansea and hurl transphobic abuse at she . in 2022 , Cassie , a phd student and wheelchair user , be wait outside a shop when two drunk man grab her wheelchair , push she down the road and make sexual comment . she have to escape by roll into traffic . we must fight back against this hatred . we must show that we be not content to stick with the status quo . the victim of these attack deserve to live in a society that say that we take this hatred seriously and will not stand for it . victim must be at the heart of our criminal justice system , and we must ensure that law protect they . that be why my new clause 122 be so important . LGBT and disabled people tell I that they do not feel as safe as they use to . we be see rise transphobia everywhere . pride flag be be take down at county hall , and some politician be openly question whether disability be even real . I be proud that Labour , in our manifesto , commit to equalise our hate crime law by make hate crime against LGBT people and disabled people aggravate offence . I be proud to be bring forward that change through new clause 122 . I hope that I can persuade all my parliamentary colleague to support the new clause today , and to take this important step forward for equal right . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Burton and Uttoxeter ( Jacob Collier ) and for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) for stand shoulder to shoulder with I throughout this process , and I urge the House to support the new clause . as mps , we receive a wide range of correspondence from constituent during some of the most difficult time in their life , but the email that I receive from Emma Johnson be perhaps one of the most harrowing that I have ever receive . it be because of Emma ' s story that I have table new clause 51 , and I will speak to it today . on 18 November 2022 , Emma have just go into labour with her young child . mother and child be okay when she receive a call inform she that her parent have be tragically kill in a car crash . the driver of the other vehicle have no licence and be uninsured . on what be suppose to be one of the happy day of Emma ' s life , she instead have to identify the body of her parent , Ian and Gail . when the case come to court , the driver of the other vehicle be charge with the less offence of cause death by careless driving , rather than by dangerous driving . that reduce the sentence available to the court , even though he be swerve in and out of traffic , and drive without a licence or insurance . I put it to the House that this , by its very nature , be dangerous . since the verdict , Emma have be fight — not for vengeance , but to make sure that no other family have to suffer the same injustice . she have seek justice not just for her parent , but for other people who face the same heartbreak . she be call for a simple but vital change : any driver who kill while drive without a licence or insurance should automatically face the more serious offence of cause death by dangerous driving . today I say directly to Emma , who I know be watch , that I fundamentally agree with you . your dedication to the cause be commendable , and you be do your late parent proud . we know that road accident happen , but if someone wilfully get behind the wheel of a car when unlicensed and uninsured , and swerve in and out of traffic , that be not an accident ; it be a dangerous choice to put other ' live at risk . new clause 51 would rightly treat such behaviour as seriously as drive under the influence of drug or alcohol . it would close a loophole in the current law and bring great justice for victim . if the new clause do not progress today , I ask the Minister to meet I and Emma to ensure that her campaign continue . I rise to speak in support of new clause 25 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) . it seek to repeal the unnecessary and arbitrary police power introduce via the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 , which introduce new power to seize the home of Gypsy and Traveller family , and to fine , arrest and imprison they . the power contain in part 4 of the Act have have a devastating impact on Romani Gypsy and Irish Traveller community , and on a culture that be not only century old but protect by law . the Government have a legal and moral duty to facilitate this way of life , not to legislate it out of existence . as we hear early from my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick , in May 2024 the High Court find certain provision in part 4 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act to be incompatible with the Human Rights Act . the Government have so far fail meaningfully to respond to that , let alone correct it . in issue the declaration of incompatibility , the High Court recognise the lack of transit provision for Gypsy and Traveller community across England , and the impact that the Act ' s power have on Gypsy and Traveller family . if there be any doubt in people ' s mind about the state of transit provision in England , I refer they to the research publish this year by friend , Families and Travellers , which find that 92 % of the 362 local authority have no transit provision at all . notably , the introduction of the power have an effect on the community ' s fear of be target and sanction . I will share the word of someone from the Romany community who have be directly impact by these power , which highlight the human consequence of these law : " this law add to the knock - on effect we face daily with access to healthcare and education ; be move on constantly have be detrimental to my health , as sometimes I have to drive over 100 mile to see a gp . I could be make a criminal and lose my home , all because I have never know any different . " it be painfully obvious that what we need be not criminal sanction for family who have nowhere to stop ; the answer be , of course , to create law which ensure there be enough place for people to stop — I might add that the Planning and Infrastructure Bill provide the perfect opportunity for that . as I stand here today during Gypsy , Roma and Traveller History Month , I urge the Government not to delay far . let we repeal part 4 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act through this Bill , and take a meaningful step towards justice , inclusion and respect for all community . I would like to start by pay tribute to Berney Hall , who be in the Gallery today and who have be campaign for a change in the law to remove the 12 - month limitation period for historic case of rape of 13 to 15 - year - old girl , when they occur before 2004 . it can take year for victim of abuse to come forward . Baroness Kennedy of Cradley table amendment to the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Bill in the other place which seek to close this loophole , but they be not take forward by the previous Government . that be why I have table new clause 160 . I hope the Government will give all survivor of this terrible crime the closure and justice they deserve . I be support several amendment today , include new clause 9 table by the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) . I recently meet a mum from my constituency whose ex - partner be convict of sexual communication with a child and put on the sex offender register , but be then allow to change his name . understandably , my constituent be horrify to learn that he could take on a new identity , and that other woman might not be aware . new clause 9 would stop offender avoid monitor measure that be important for public safety , as well as reassuring victim that perpetrator can not dodge the repercussion of their action . I be also support new clause 85 to 88 , new clause 121 and 122 , and new clause 102 . in addition , I support new clause 120 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) , which would strengthen protection for emergency worker by address hate - motivate offence commit against they in private dwelling . no one do their job to protect other should face abuse . whether on the street or in someone ' s home , hate - fuel attack on those who serve the public must be prosecute with the seriousness they warrant . finally , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) for table new clause 43 , which would ensure the Government implement the Protection from Sex - base Harassment in Public Act 2023 . no one should have to put up with sexual harassment and this change in the law be long overdue . I rise to speak to new clause 102 to 105 in my name . first , I thank the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) for her engagement on the issue I be about to discuss , and I pay tribute to UK Feminista , which run the all - party parliamentary group on commercial sexual exploitation , to CEASE — the Centre to end all Sexual Exploitation — and to Barnardo ' s for its steadfast campaign on tackle violence against woman and girl , and the protection of child . my new clause reflect the recommendation of the very thorough recent review conduct for the Government by Baroness Gabby Bertin into online pornography . I be so proud that this Labour Government have make a commitment to halve violence against woman and girl . I truly believe that regulate violent online pornography , which be view by nearly 40 % of man once a week in the UK , will make a clear impact on that commitment . as the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) have already powerfully argue , sexual strangulation be one of the most frequently find act across all category on mainstream pornography site . despite its danger , it be portray as perfectly safe and a normal part of sex . in a Google search , CEASE find 30 million video immediately for " choke her " porn . I want to share the story of Hannah , who meet her killer , James Morton , on the day she die . Morton " be report as be obsess with strangulation , frequently watch porn feature strangulation of woman . although the judge say Morton have strangle Hannah ' without warning or permission ' , Morton claim he begin to lightly strangle Hannah … before more forcefully strangle she . " woman and girl be pay the price of both an industry that seek to profit from the most violent kind of content and law that be not fit for purpose . despite the clear evidence of a direct connection between view strangulation content in mainstream pornography and undertake such act , the law require the removal of this type of pornographic content only if the threshold of " life - threaten " be clearly meet . new clause 102 would ban pornographic content depict all strangulation and , with the requirement in the Online Safety Act 2023 to remove illegal content , would place a duty on platform to remove strangulation video or face sanction . it be clear that we need strong regulation . Offline , we have be regulate pornographic content since the Video Recordings Act 1984 , which specifically prohibit offline content that the British Board of Film Classification would find unsuitable , yet our online regulation have not keep pace . of particular concern be content that depict sexual activity with child . know as " teen porn " or " incest porn " , this content feature young - look performer make to look under age through use of prop such as stuff toy , lollipop and school uniform . such content normalise child as object of sexual desire and drive the demand for child sexual abuse material . pornography producer have get around the ban on incest material by promote porn video in which there be step - incest . in a society where many of we have blend family , it be simply not right that step - daddy / daughter pornography be legal , no matter whether the actor be over 18 or not . new clause 103 would ensure that what be illegal offline be illegal online . we must also ensure that all illegal pornographic content be regulate equally online , regardless of where that content be host . duty under the Online Safety Act to combat illegal content apply only to pornography website that host user - to - user interaction or user - generate content , and pornography website that host only commercially produce pornography be exempt from illegal duty . we must not allow that to continue . new clause 104 would ensure that all pornography site must adhere to illegal content duty . finally , it be important to remember that the act of sexual violence I have speak about today be perpetrate against real woman and girl . this be not act or perform . woman be often force or coerce into this industry , and , once in it , even the most famous pornography performer be exploit . for example , Kate be traffic from the UK to the pornography industry in America , where she suffer horrendous abuse and be force to take part in dangerous and degrading sex act on film . the consequence of what she endure have stay with she despite she escape the industry . the truth be , there be no way of know whether the woman who appear in pornography have give their consent , or whether they be even adult . new clause 105 would ensure that pornography website access from the UK must verify the age and consent of every individual feature on their site and , crucially , enable individual feature in pornography to withdraw their consent to its publication at any time . I look forward to work with the Government and colleague across the House to tackle the harmful impact of this multibillion - pound industry . I rise to speak to new clause 123 in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) . I have to say , I be a little surprised that I be have to speak to this new clause today , and I implore the Minister to give it due consideration , not least because it be present on a cross - party basis in the previous Parliament by Baroness Harman . in fact , on the day it be debate , Baroness Harman , who have do all the work on it , be away due to a personal matter , and it be speak to by the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , who be , of course , now the Minister for Safeguarding and violence against Women and girl . the Minister will be aware that this issue directly concern a constituent of mine , whose experience I will speak to later . I really encourage the Minister to give the new clause due consideration and , if it be not take up , perhaps she can clarify in her remark why there be a delay . every engagement I have have with the Department have suggest that such a provision be well on its way , so I would be curious to know about that . for the benefit of the House , the new clause seek to remove the parental right of convict sex offender . it be unconscionable to my constituent that child could be subject to live with a sex offender because the sex offender be their parent . it be reprehensible that the law allow that to happen . it allow convict criminal who have commit the most heinous crime to exploit the law , and it put vulnerable child at risk . my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands be incredibly generous to I when speak about her amendment . the truth be that my constituent have drive I in this . I remember the first time that the parent of " Bethan " come to see I — I will use that name for the purpose of this speech . frankly , as a father I do not know whether I would have keep my composure the way they do if I be in their position . they speak about it in such an honest way , and they continue to do so . the other experience I have with the family be up in the Gallery with they when the amendment be debate , and I could see their sheer joy . when Bethan ' s daughter ' s father be sentence he be ban from any future contact with child , but he be not ban from contact with his own child . this critical amendment would stop that . it would give Bethan , and other in her position , the assurance she need that her child can not be contact by a convict paedophile . I know the Minister to be a very capable Minister and a good person , and I be sure she agree that no parent should have to go through this . the amendment could save anguish for many thousand of parent and give they clarity . of further importance be that Bethan have to self - fund her case to severely restrict her daughter ' s father ' s parental right , but that be not something that every parent will be able to achieve — and there be people without legal aid . of course , the consideration most paramount be the safeguarding of the child and protect the innocent victim , but this protection should not be available only to those who can afford it . the proposal be also champion last year by the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley , who ask how an individual can be consider too dangerous to work with or be around other people ' s child yet be allow to have responsibility for a child ' s life so long as that child be their own . I do not think that be a controversial statement to make , so I ask the Minister to give the amendment due consideration . this be clearly something that be very important to I and my constituent . if the amendment be not pass today , I will push for further amendment on this issue and bring forward debate on it , as well as private Member ' s Bill . when I speak to Bethan ' s family , they talk about how devastated they be that the amendment be not take forward . I hope the Minister will recognise the anguish that this delay be cause . I rise to support new clause 15 and 16 in my name . the amendment address two specific but crucial failing in our current road traffic law : the absence of adequate penalty for drive without ever have hold a licence and insufficient consequence for people who fail to stop after an incident . the amendment be in honour of Harry Parker , a much - love 14 - year - old whose life be tragically cut short on 25 November 2022 on his way to school . I engage with the family regularly , and this have truly rock Adam and Kelly . it be utterly devastating for they to have lose their child at such an early point in his life . I extend my deep sympathy to Harry ' s parent , and I admire their courage in seek change through their grief . the driver who kill Harry be drive without a licence , have no insurance and do not stop . shockingly , all charge be drop . the police and the Crown Prosecution Service follow the letter of the law , but that be why I be here . the law as it stand do not recognise the gravity of these offence when they be commit by someone who should never have be behind the wheel in the first place . that be why I have bring forward the two amendment . new clause 15 on unlicensed driver would amend section 87 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 to introduce tough penalty for individual who have never hold a licence . new clause 16 on the offence of failure to stop would amend section 170 of the 1988 Act to allow court to impose unlimited fine , a custodial sentence and a disqualification from drive for up to two year . more importantly , it would allow the court to impose any combination of those penalty . no law can bring Harry back . no sentence will ease the pain of the family and friend . these amendment be about restore the balance and send a clear message : if someone choose to drive without a licence and if someone run from the scene of a crash , there will be real - world consequence . I appreciate that the amendment may not progress , but I ask the Government to take they seriously with a road safety strategy , which I hope we can push forward in future . I rise to speak to new clause 156 in my name , which I bring forward because of Isabella , a 14 - year - old girl who live in my constituency . in May of this year , Isabella be hang out with friend in Lyme Regis when she be lure to the cemetery . a group of young people be wait . one of they have their phone out and be already film her arrival . moment later , another girl who Isabella know launch a brutal assault . her head be smash against a concrete step , she be stamp on and kick in the face again and again . while Isabella be be attack , no one stop to help ; instead , they stand by and they film . they laugh and they demand they be send the video . the attack be premeditate , but so too be the filming . the recording begin before Isabella even arrive . it be not take to provide evidence or to expose wrongdoing but take deliberately to broadcast her humiliation and glorify the violence . I have see the video ; it be horrific . Isabella ' s mother have see the video , her friend have see the video and hundred , and possibly thousand , of people have see the video because it be intentionally and maliciously circulate on social medium and in private WhatsApp group in school across West Dorset . child who be not there and who do not even know Isabella see her brutal attack play out on their phone . the violence do not stop when the attack end . it be share , it be forward , it be replayed and it be whisper about . Isabella ' s attacker be charge with actual bodily harm . she receive anger management class and a six - month restraining order . that be bad enough , but the people who film it walk away entirely unpunished . the filming have start before the attack occur , they know the attack be come , they plan to film it and then they proceed to share the video while laugh . they do not walk away unpunished because there be no proof of what they do — the video be the proof — but because our law do not yet recognise such specific , premeditated and deeply harmful behaviour as the offence that it should be . that be why I believe that new clause 156 be so important . it seek to create a specific offence for premeditated filming and distribution of violent act with the intent to humiliate , distress and psychologically harm the victim . it recognise what too many family already know : that this be not about a punch throw or a kick deliver , but about the deliberate choice to film violence , broadcast it and humiliate the victim repeatedly for an audience that grow with every share , every click and every forward message . we be not talk about evidence or journalism , or about someone catch wrongdoing to expose it . indeed , new clause 156 make it very clear and contain an explicit safeguard to protect public interest journalism and for footage be use as evidence . yet where there be premeditation and where someone knowingly film or broadcast an attack with the intent to amplify the victim ' s humiliation , that behaviour must face consequence . isabella ' s case be not an isolated one . the hon . Gentleman speak with great passion about his constituent . yesterday evening , I hold a roundtable with parent in my constituency to talk about mobile phone use in school . one of the parent be a gp and she speak about how child who have be subject to such attack have come to her surgery say that they be contemplate suicide because of what they have face . do he agree that this go well beyond mere humiliation and to some of the bad mental health problem our young people could face ? I agree with the hon . gentleman ; we do not fully understand the last psychological damage , especially as this be a grow problem . I have receive further letter from other people , who have tell I about similar incident in other school , other town and other playground . nationally , the problem be rise . accord to the Youth Endowment Fund ' s 2024 survey , 70 % of young people report see real - world violence online in the past year and that most of that footage be of fight involve young people . it be happen in our community right now and the law be fail to keep pace . our child already face enormous pressure from social medium — from online bullying to app design to capture their attention and expose they to content far beyond their year . as parent , we do our good to protect they , but we can not be everywhere . we have a duty to put proper deterrent in place where social medium company have continually fail we . we have a duty to send a clear message that this behaviour be unacceptable , that it be dangerous and that it will not go unpunished . I will finish with the word of Isabella ' s mother , Sarah . she say : " I have to live with the flashback of watch my daughter be beat . I also have to live know that this video will be forever available on social medium . " on behalf of Sarah and of Isabella , I hope that the Government will support a change to the law so that something positive can come from Isabella ' s experience . I pay tribute to the hon . member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) for his speech and for advocate for new clause 156 . he be a powerful advocate for his constituent who suffer such horrific thing , and I thank he for that . I rise to speak in support of new clause 48 , which stand in my name . it would create a new , stand - alone offence of assault a delivery worker . before I begin , though , let I refer member to my entry in the Register of Member ' s Financial Interests and my membership of the GMB Union . delivery worker be vital to our local economy . they link shop with home , caf é s with customer and community with each other . they help keep our high street alive and our home supply . but too often , they be abuse , assault , and attack just for do their job . Rolston , who ride for Deliveroo , have be verbally abuse and threaten with violence on people ' s doorstep for ask for ID when deliver alcohol , as the law require he to do . Emiliana have be ride in Kent since 2018 . she have have two motorbike steal and have be pelt . sometimes it be far bad . claudiu Carol Kondor be an Amazon delivery driver . he be kill in Leeds last year . a thief jump into his van while he be deliver parcel . Claudiu try to stop he , cling to his vehicle for half a mile , plead with the thief to stop . he be deliberately knock off and kill . he have buy that van just three week early and be try to protect his livelihood . instead , he lose his life . no one should leave home to go to work and not come back . those be just a few story , but they be not isolate incident . the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers have find that 77 % of delivery worker for major retailer such as Tesco , Sainsbury ' s , Asda , Ocado , Morrisons and Iceland have be a victim of abuse in the past year . a quarter have turn down delivery because they fear for their safety , and 13 % have be physically assault . and this be happen during an epidemic of retail crime . shoplifting have nearly double since the pandemic , and rise by 23 % last year alone . in - store retail staff also face absolutely shocking abuse . I welcome the Labour Government ' s commitment to protect retail worker with a stand - alone offence , which USDAW , through its freedom from fear campaign , have campaign on for year . it be the right move , because no one should feel unsafe , or face abuse — verbal or physical — just for do their job . delivery worker be on the frontline , too . they work alone , often at night . they be public - face and can be vulnerable . when something go wrong — a delay , a miss item , or the wrong order — they be the one who face the backlash . too often frustration turn into abuse , violence , or bad . delivery worker deserve the same protection that this Government be rightly offer to staff in store . when Parliament place extra responsibility on delivery rider to police much - need law on age verification , it should legislate to provide additional protection for they . new clause 48 be back by the GMB Union , USDAW , Deliveroo , the British Retail Consortium and ukhospitality . trade body and trade union be campaign together , because they know the reality . they see what delivery worker face every day . since the covid pandemic , delivery rider have become a part of how we shop and we rely on they . I wish to speak about new clause 84 to 86 and return once again to police and police funding . in new clause 86 on neighbourhood policing , the liberal Democrats seek to address the Government ' s recently announce neighbourhood policing plan . the plan pledge to recruit an additional 13 , 000 police officer — a figure that still simply do not stack up . I speak last week in Westminster Hall about the discrepancy in the Government ' s pledge , the lack of clarity around the baseline figure against which progress will be measure , the fuzziness around how the 3 , 000 officer transfer from other role will be determine or implement , and the fact that the 2 , 611 officer overcounte as be in neighbourhood role by 29 of the 43 police force in England and Wales mean that the 3 , 000 officer the Government have announce this year be all but net neutral in term of additional warrant police officer — it be an in - year increase of just 389 officer once the adjustment be take into account . new clause 86 appear to misunderstand how operational control and deployment of police resource work . it make no reference to the operational decision - make responsibility of the chief constable , much as the Government have stipulate the redeployment of 3 , 000 officer without explain how and where that will be implement . subsection ( 2 ) state : " the Home Office must publish proposal detail the additional funding that will be require to ensure that police force can meet these requirement without reduce officer number in other frontline policing role " , yet it fail to stipulate that funding be inequitable in the first instance . I have speak at length about the police allocation formula , so I ask the Liberal Democrats , and in particular my neighbour , the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) , if they will join I in lead call for the Policing Minister to ensure that the police allocation formula be update to reflect the population increase and redistribution that have occur since the formula be first introduce . I be aware that the Policing Minister state in Westminster Hall on 5 June that " there be a White Paper come in the next few month . I want to make clear to hon . member this afternoon that , within that , there will undoubtedly have to be a discussion about finance and resource for police . " — [ Official Report , 5 June 2025 ; Vol . 768 , c . 227WH . ] I welcome that discussion , and I know that she will , if nothing else , be keen to address my concern as a priority if only to get I off her back . new clause 85 mention funding within the context of " minimum level " of police . the Liberal Democrats be ask for every police force in England and Wales to maintain neighbourhood police team at a level necessary to ensure " effective community engagement and crime prevention " . who stipulate that level ? be that at the chief constable ' s discretion , or be it the police and crime commissioner , the metro mayor , the Policing Minister or the Home Secretary ? define " effective " . furthermore , a ringfenced allocation of 20 % for neighbourhood police from future police grant report would hamper the flexibility of operational budget for chief constable when we should be allow they the freedom of operation to be the arbiter of how their resource may be employ most effectively within their constabulary area . lastly , new clause 84 be on the rural crime prevention strategy : an area that appear to have be all but overlook by the Government in their recent announcement . I be sure that the national rural crime unit already have a strategy . it be establish under the previous Government in 2023 and have recover steal property include agricultural machinery and vehicle worth over £ 10 million since its inception . it have also co - ordinated UK - wide operational response result in multiple arrest as well as disrupt organise crime group . cambridgeshire ' s rural crime action team already punch above its weight . in 2023 - 24 alone , it recover almost £ 1 million - worth of steal property , seize 163 vehicle use in crime , attend more than 1 , 700 incident and prosecute 83 suspect . they work closely with the national rural crime unit , but , once again , despite their success , they be underfunde and under - resource . Cambridgeshire be a large county with significant rural area , yet we rely on just a small team of officer to take on everything from machinery theft to the real danger of the violent organise crime group who conduct hare coursing : an issue that desperately need to be tackle in Cambridgeshire . the Government ' s neighbourhood policing plan gloss over the need for great police presence in our rural community . West of the A1 in my constituency , there be dozen of village that will , in theory , have a name officer — how will that prevent someone take an angle grinder to a vehicle shed on an isolated farm at 3 am ? the Government have talk a good game on police , but their number do not add up . their strategy have hole all over it , and for all the talk of an uplift in police finance , senior police officer have repeatedly raise concern about the police allocation formula remain unchanged . on that last point , I expect the forthcoming White Paper to address the change for which I have repeatedly and consistently call , for Cambridgeshire constabulary to be fund fairly and for its officer to be properly resource . I rise to speak to new clause 44 , otherwise know as Banaz ' s law , table in my name and in memory of Banaz Mahmod . I be grateful for the cross - party support that I have receive for the new clause from 54 Labour , Conservative and Liberal Democrat Members and for the opportunity to continue the work of my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , and the last Women and Equalities Committee ; I be proud to be a member of the Committee . Banaz be a young woman from south London . in 2006 , she be murder by her father , her uncle and five male cousin in a so - call honour killing . her crime , in their eye , be to leave an abusive husband , whom she have bravely report for rape and violence , and to seek love with a man of her own choosing . believe she have bring shame and dishonour upon the family , they convene what they chillingly call a council of war and plot her death . Banaz ' s body be find month later bury in a suitcase in a back garden in Birmingham . this horrific injustice do not begin with her murder , however . Banaz go to the police five time . she report rape , she name her abuser , she predict her own death and still her cry for help be dismiss . an investigation by the Independent Police Complaints Commission into the police handling of Banaz ' s case later find multiple serious failing . this be not only a family crime ; it be a community crime . Police estimate that as many as 50 man be involve in plot the murder , cover it up or encourage this honour narrative . Banaz ' s uncle call her death " justice " . other call he a hero . Banaz ' s case be not unique . Shafilea Ahmed , Somaiya Begum , Raneem Oudeh , Khaola Saleem and Fawziyah Javed be all woman subject to honour - base abuse . the Domestic Abuse Commissioner estimate that at least 12 honour killing take place in the UK every year . More than 7 , 000 incident of honour - base abuse be record annually , but the true scale be almost certainly great . while I fully support the important step this Bill take to tackle violence against woman and girl , I be concern by its insufficient focus on honour - base abuse and I be grateful to the Minister for Victims , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , for take the time to meet I . however , I must stress that subsume honour - base abuse within extant law do not adequately contend with these issue and be not sufficiently capable of yield the change promise by Banaz ' s law . my new clause call for honour - base abuse to be recognise in law as an aggravating factor in sentencing . it also call for victim - survivor who act in self - defence or under coercion after year of abuse to have that context recognise as a mitigate factor . with this new clause , statutory guidance across the criminal justice system could be give so that police , prosecutor and court could be train to recognise and respond to this high - risk , often collective , form of abuse . I want to pay tribute to the Bekhal Mahmod , Banaz ' s sister . her courage and the tireless work of Southall Black Sisters have bring we to this point . I will not be press my new clause to a vote today , but I hope that Ministers will take this opportunity to reflect on the need to take further action against all form of honour - base abuse , because the need for reform be undeniable . will the hon . Lady give way ? order . I think the hon . member for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) just run out of time . I remember that I too raise Banaz ' s case as a Back Bencher . I rise to speak in support of six of the new clause that go to the heart of our responsibility as legislator — safeguard child , restore public confidence in the law and defend free expression — although due to the lack of time , I will not be able to go into they all in detail . new clause 45 , stand in my name , seek to ensure that where an individual under the age of 18 have be caution or convict of a child sex offence , the police must notify any organisation that that child be involve in , where they be with other child , or an organisation that that person be seek to join . this new clause stem from a real case in my own constituency and would close a dangerous and demonstrably harmful safeguarding loophole , which I have already discuss privately with the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) . I hope that the Government will look at this as they take this legislation through the other place . new clause 46 , also stand my name , address another gap in legislation : a person ' s ability to buy a car without provide any form of verifiable ID , or indeed prove that they can actually drive . this be in memory of Andrew Rowlands , with the support of his family , and it would make it hard for criminal and reckless driver to use untraceable vehicle with impunity and kill people , as happen in Andrew ' s case . new clause 108 , table by my hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) , seek to reaffirm the right to speak freely about religion or belief , include criticism , satire and dissent , by restore clarity to our public order law . I know he will be speak to it later , and I wholly support it . it be closely align to new clause 7 , which be be put forward by the Opposition Front Bench today . we need to start address some of these non - crime hate incident , which I think be become a pernicious attack upon freedom in our society . more broadly , it be great to hear the hon . member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) speak about pornography and some of the amendment she have put forward . I support new clause 103 . in fact , I have be do some work recently with the British Board of Film Classification because there be clearly major issue between what be allow to be broadcast and age rate within traditional broadcast setting and what be available online . there be a grow body of evidence link violent and abusive pornography with increase rate of sexual aggression , especially towards woman and girl . I fully support the new clause and hope that the Government pay attention to what the hon . Member propose . I support new clause 150 relate to cousin marriage . I be glad that the Opposition Front Bench have put it forward , and I speak at length about the matter early in Westminster Hall . this be not a knee - jerk reaction ; it represent the next logical step in a serious and ongoing effort to protect the vulnerable and promote social cohesion . I have already introduce a private member ' s Bill in this Session on the marriage element , follow the successful challenge ban virginity testing and hymenoplasty in the last session , because when it come to protect woman and man from outdated , coercive and harmful practice , this House must not look the other way . this be not about race or religion ; it be about freedom , societal cohesion and health . it be about freedom because consent be meaningless when extended family can pressure young man and woman into cousin marriage that they do not want . we must stand up for those without a voice and give they the legal backing to say no . it be about cohesion because multigenerational cousin marriage often foster huge issue around social segregation , lock individual into closed system of authority . when country like Norway and Denmark have act decisively , there be no excuse for this country to lag behind other with progressive credential . it be about health because there be a real risk . the Born in Bradford study , which have be go on for many year , have find the real societal implication , and we still do not know the full side effect of multigenerational first cousin marriage . we rightly prohibit relationship where power distort consent — between teacher and pupil , doctor and patient , and within close family setting . the same logic clearly apply here as well . this new clause be root in compassion , not condemnation . it speak to freedom , especially for woman , and the courage to legislate where silence simply cause harm . each of these amendment address a different risk — child safety , public accountability and freedom of expression — but they be unite in the common principle that the law should protect the vulnerable , demand responsibility , and preserve the freedom on which a healthy and confident society depend . I rise to support new clause 122 , table by my hon . friend the Member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) . in 2007 , Fiona Pilkington drive herself and her 18 - year - old daughter , Francecca Hardwick , to a lay - by near her home . she also take the family ' s pet rabbit to soothe her daughter , who have severe learning disability . she then set the car on fire , kill they both . an inquest two year later hear how the family have be keep virtual prisoner in their home by youth who throw stone , flour and other object and keep up a relentless stream of abuse . at the time , the Independent Police Complaints Commission conclude that one of the police ' s main failing be in not identify the abuse as hate crime . the case prompt wide concern that many police force be fail to properly identify hate crime motivate by disability , and thus treat they as low - priority antisocial behaviour — something disability campaigner say too often remain the case . I be proud that last year our labour manifesto " commit to champion the right of disabled people and to the principle of work with they , so that their view and voice will be at the heart of all we do . " I support my hon . friend ' s new clause 122 , which would implement our manifesto commitment to protect LGBT + and disabled people by make all exist strand of hate crime an aggravate offence . the new clause would finally place the Law Commission ' s recommendation on a statutory footing . as the commission have say : " it be undesirable for the current law to give the impression of a ' hierarchy ' of victim . " the Bill will be powerful in deliver the Government ' s safe street mission and plan for change . it will help to tackle the crime that matter most to community but that have be ignore for too long , after 14 year of the Tory dereliction of duty on law and order . disability hate crime be one such example . under the Conservatives , there be a staggering increase of nearly 700 % in police - record disability hate crime between 2012 and 2023 . as chair of the APPG on autism , I be particularly concerned about the impact on autistic people and those with learn disability . " hate crime can wreck life . it create a huge mental health problem for people with learn disability and autism — people who often don ' t have the ability to understand or cope with it . " those be the word of Mark Brookes , the hate crime ambassador for the Dimensions charity , who be part of the " I ' m with Sam " campaign for no more learn disability and autism hate crime . aggravated offence currently exist only for offence involve racial or religious hostility . the high maximum penalty available for aggravated offence be perceive to have a more powerful symbolic and deterrent effect . high maximum penalty mean that aggravated offence be often pursue in the Crown court rather the magistrate court . as the hate crime charity Galop have argue , the Crown court be a more appropriate forum for deal with the gravity and victim impact of hate offence , and it have superior facility for victim . I have research the experience of disabled people in the criminal justice system over the past 14 year , so I know that this opportunity to legislate to strengthen the law on hate crime offence must be seize . disabled people enrich our society . new clause 122 would foster respect and equality for all by ensure justice for disabled victim of hate crime . let I start by highlight my support for new clause 85 and 86 , which deal with neighbourhood policing . they would ensure that police force be require to practise community police " at a level necessary to ensure effective community engagement and crime prevention " . it be a shame that the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) be not in his place to intervene for a definition on that . it be about engage with local community and ward panel to define the appropriate level in their area — which I be sure he would support — rather than take a top - down view . the new clause would compel the Secretary of State to produce an annual report on the state of community police . we have outline a way of funding that too : 20 % of future police grant would be ringfence for community policing activity , literally make crime pay — in the reverse of the manner in which that phrase be normally use — by allocate fund recover from the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 to community police . that be important , because commitment to police number mean little without serious action to reverse the scale of forthcoming cut , such as the cut of 1 , 419 officer and staff that we in London be about to experience this year . indeed , as the Metropolitan Police Commissioner recently tell the BBC , " ambition and money go alongside each other " . I urge member across the House to support those new clause . I will now turn to my new clause 95 and 96 . it be good to see the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , in her place to continue a conversation that we have have many time on stalk . stalk be a heinous crime : it throw life into chaos , leave victim in life - change and near - constant terror , and too often go unpunished . the current legislation force too many victim to meet an improbably high bar of evidence , force they to jump through hoop to be a perfect victim , just to prove the scale of the threat against they . I have hear from victim in my Sutton and Cheam constituency who have have their life completely upend by their stalker , and who be completely at their wit ' s end after face so many obstacle to get justice . it be clear that the two relevant section of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 be the root of those obstacle . the distinction between a less section 2a offence and a more severe section 4A offence be fail victim and fail to recognise the total scope of stalk . successful prosecution of section 4A offence be far too hard to achieve . the burden of proof be place so heavily on the victim . even celebrity such as Emma Raducanu , and other in the public eye who have be affect by stalker , feel unsafe and unprotected by exist legislation . do the hon . Member agree that be clear additional evidence that the law need strengthen ? the hon . Member provide a clear and visible example of how the legislation be not work , if somebody with such a high profile and with additional security protection can not be protect from stalker . I thank he for his apt intervention . the burden of proof mean that many victim withdraw from the process completely and give up on gain justice . my new clause would compel the Secretary of State to publish a review into the two clause within six month of the Act receive Royal Assent , and to make time for that review to be properly consider in the House upon its completion . they would also compel the Secretary of State to launch a review into the effectiveness and adequacy of the stalk awareness guidance provide by public body in England and Wales , and to make similar provision for proper consideration and debate in this House . I know that aim be support by the Minister , so I would like to hear how it be be bring forward . new clause 43 , table by my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) , be incredibly important and deserve the support of the House . the new clause automatically commence the protection from Sex - base Harassment in Public Act 2023 when the Crime and Policing Bill receive Royal Assent . that he have manage to corral together such luminary in this House as the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) , my hon . friend the Member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) , and the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) and for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , to support the measure be a triumph in itself . we speak about new clause 130 in Committee , and I very much support its measure on tool theft . it would add the theft of tool from tradesman to the list of aggravate factor in the Sentencing Act 2020 , and present a way forward towards more sensible regulation of temporary market , where too many steal tool be often sell out of car boot . I recently visit the Kimpton industrial estate in Stonecot in my constituency , where I hear more about the awful impact of that kind of theft from tradespeople , who too often be leave with their livelihood wreck and very little proper recourse to get their life back on track , other than to fork out huge amount to buy new tool , which in many case be later steal again . it be a horrible cycle , which I also hear about at the Stop Tool Theft rally on the street outside this Chamber early this year . the measure set out in the new clause provide a good path forward but will not solve the issue alone . without the kind of commitment to restore community police that I mention in reference to new clause 85 and 86 , police force will remain too overstretched to mobilise the resource to investigate these crime in the first place . my hon . friend talk about community police and get police officer back into the community , so do he support my new clause 157 , which seek to streamline the way police case file be prepared and submit to the Crown Prosecution Service ? it be a common - sense approach that would reduce red tape and , most importantly , get police back out support victim and build the community trust that they need ? my hon . friend ' s word have convince I and hon . member across the House about her new clause . the Met police recently respond to a freedom of information request about tool theft , which reveal that nine in 10 tool theft in the last five year in London go unsolved , which show the scale of the problem and the importance of support new clause 130 today . I would like quickly to draw attention to some other amendment . new clause 87 and 88 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Hazel Grove , would hold water company executive to account properly for the first time , and that would mark a huge step forward in tackle the sewage crisis we face in this country . those individual should be hold liable for their carelessness and fixation with raise bill , while run company into the ground and ruin our river . I wish I have more time to outline my reason for support the clause , but I refer the House to my many prior contribution on the subject . new clause 44 , table by the hon . member for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) , would mark a step forward in provide support to victim of honour - base violence and murder . new clause 122 , table by the hon . member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) , would strengthen the law on hate crime direct at disabled , LGBT + people , and rightly seek to protect people who be victim of hate crime because of their association with individual in those group , and I wholeheartedly support it . in contract , new clause 7 , table by the official Opposition , would weaken hate crime legislation in this country , and I fear it be motivate by a complete lack of respect for the decade of progress we have make in recognise the type of discrimination face by people the length and breadth of this country . for this Bill to push we forward , and not drag we backwards , that new clause must be reject . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as a proud member of the trade union movement . no one should go to work with the uncertainty each day that their safety might be put at risk . we as a Government clearly support that for emergency worker , and of course we be legislate for retail worker too . new clause 48 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) , address delivery worker , and today I stand to speak for my new clause 11 , which would do the same for transport worker . every day , transport worker face verbal abuse , sexual harassment or physical assault , whether on bus , tram or ferry . transport worker , alongside their trade union , the RMT , be call for new measure to protect they at work : first , the introduction of a specific offence of assault or abuse a transport worker ; and secondly , an extension in the maximum sentence , from six to 12 month — not least if sentence be now to be serve in the community . I have mean to speak to my amendment 120 today , but that intention be supersede by the Government ' s movement on this , which I really welcome . it will close a loophole so that it will now be an offence to abuse an emergency worker on the ground of race , religion or sexual orientation in somebody ' s private dwelling . I congratulate the Government on that . I welcome the hon . member ' s intervention . this just go to show the extent to which our public servant put themselves in harm ' s way , often run towards danger on our behalf . when people be serve we — our constituent — day in , day out , they deserve the protection that we be aim to introduce in this legislation . let we look at the scale of the abuse our transport worker be face . transport for London say that 10 % of worker be physically assault , with 90 % verbally abuse and 60 % experience violence at work , and that be just in the last 18 month . in fact , 10 , 493 TfL worker have incident of violence or aggression perpetrate against they . more widely , the British Transport Police highlight in 2024 that 7 , 027 offence be commit , and just in the last year there be 7 , 405 crime , with 3 , 650 violent crime . and there have be a 47 % increase since 2021 . out transport worker will not be safe unless more measure be include in this legislation . we be also hear from other group of worker , so we need to look holistically at the threat they be face and how we can put those protection in place to ensure that specific measure be available to help keep they safe . that would also be well for the public . we should also look at the work the RMT have do . it have survey its woman worker , and 40 % of transport worker who be woman have be sexually harass in the last year , and that , too , be on the rise . two third of RMT member have experience abuse , violence or antisocial behaviour , but 40 % have not report it as they be not confident that they will get the recourse they need . this be have an impact on their health and wellbeing . the level of post - traumatic stress disorder experience by transport worker be double that of the general population . that be why they be call for legal protection for all public transport worker — because of the scale and the prevalence . move forward with this will also deter perpetrator and support worker . it will improve action and response time and the support that be available . we in this House need only think back to the covid pandemic . Belly Mujinga be spat at while work at Victoria station and , sadly , lose her life . she be there serve faithfully as a sale clerk during that period . her union , the Transport Salaried Staffs Association , have say : " while we remember Belly today , our union continue to fight for safe and healthy workplace for all of our member . " that be why I be here today : to fight for they alongside the trade union , the British Transport Police , the rail industry body , the Rail Delivery Group , Network Rail and all of the transport union — stand together , say they need more measure to keep worker safe on our transport system . we often hear about other safety risk that transport worker place themselves in , but today it be about their own personal safety , and I be sure this House will hear it . so I be ask for clear support for new clause 11 , but of course I be willing to meet the Minister to discuss how we can advance the cause of transport worker and hope that , if we can not make these amendment today , we will be able to do so in the other place . before I turn to my new clause , I welcome in particular new clause 7 , on non - crime hate incident , and new clause 150 , propose by my right hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) , which would ban sexual relationship between first cousin . this Bill present an opportunity for the Government to support my new clause 108 to protect freedom of expression . that be urgently need , because existing legislation have be manipulate to create a blasphemy law for the protection of Islam from criticism and protest . as I say in my speech last week , I be not a Muslim , and I reject any attempt to tell I that I can not say what I think about any religion . no idea or belief should be above criticism or scrutiny . the transformation of the Public Order Act 1986 , which have become Britain ' s de facto blasphemy law , need to be reverse . section 4 and 5 of the Act be now use to prosecute individual for express legitimate opinion . the law be be twist , make the protester responsible for the potentially violent reaction of those who can not deal with criticism of their belief . the introduction of offence for religious hatred back in 2006 raise enough concern about free speech from parliamentarian across the spectrum to lead to section 29j of the Public Order Act . the legislation protect freedom of expression state clearly : " nothing in this part shall be read or give effect in a way which prohibit or restrict discussion , criticism or expression of antipathy , dislike , ridicule , insult or abuse of particular religion or the belief or practice of their adherent " . that be very welcome , but it apply only to part 3 of the Act . that be why my amendment would extend section 29j to the whole of the Public Order Act , to section 1 of the Malicious Communications Act 1988 and to section 127 of the Communications Act 2003 . People from across the country have write to I express their support for my new clause , as I introduce it in a similar form in a ten - minute rule Bill last week . I thank in particular Fiyaz Mughal from tell MAMA for his support . some have express concern for my safety in make this case ; in so do , they reinforce just how grave the crisis of our freedom of expression have become . it have be encouraging to receive cross - party support for my new clause , but I be disappoint , although not terribly surprised , that not one member from the Liberal Democrats have support it or voice their opposition to the revival in this debate and recently of blasphemy law . that be not very liberal , not very democratic and not very appropriate for the party of Gladstone . this Government and political leader in general must be much braver and more honest about how we deal with the threat to free speech from the threat of violence , but we see the opposite . when I have ask question about this issue , Ministers have stick to their line to take , insist that we " do not have a blasphemy law " — [ Official Report , 3 June 2025 ; Vol . 768 , c . 168 . ] in this country , when everyone know that actually , in effect , we do . even bad , the Government plan to impose a definition of Islamophobia on we that would stop criticism of Islam and islamic practice , clamp down even more firmly on free speech and empower extremist while let down the pluralist and moderate in the british muslim population . the hon . Gentleman be make a really impassione speech . in some way , I agree with element of what he be say ; I be involve in extensive discussion with the humanist recently about exactly this issue . a gentleman be prosecute for burn a Koran , and he just want to express his displeasure to the turkish Government . do the hon . Gentleman not think it would be preferable to ensure that the law be be adhere to correctly by those who administer it in the court , rather than try to bring in an additional law that could damage religious relation in some way ? I thank the hon . Lady for her contribution , but the point be that the court be interpret the law as they see it . if we in this place believe that interpretation to be wrong , it be our job to correct it through legislation , and I think the appropriate way to do so would be to extend section 29j of the Act in the way I have describe . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I do not know whether the Minister be allow to intervene , but she would be welcome to do so . [ interruption . ] she have be here long than I have . we do discuss whether or not I be allow to intervene . I have be involve with case of harassment and malicious communication involve antisemitism and anti - jewish hatred . be the hon . Gentleman suggest that criticise jewish people should be allow ? no , I think the Minister have misunderstand my point . actually , I be about to move on to a related issue , which be that hate people and discriminate against they on the basis that they be Muslims , or indeed member of different religious group , be already a crime . if someone be harass jewish people in the way that the Minister have just describe , that would be a criminal offence , even if my amendment pass . however , as I be say , Islamophobia be a make - up and nonsensical concept that elide the protection of individual from hatred with the protection of idea and belief , and — in my view — be therefore completely unacceptable in principle . can I ask the hon . Gentleman what he would like I to tell the family of Mohammed Saleem , the 80 - year - old grandfather who be stab simply for be a Muslim ? that be obviously an appalling crime — I remember it very well — but I do not think it have anything to do with what I be say in this debate . in a free and pluralistic society , we have to be free to criticise idea . there be law to protect people , but we can not have law that protect idea from scrutiny or criticism . however , the Government be press on with their work on Islamophobia . only this week , on the very day that Baroness Casey say that the rape gang be often not prosecute because of the ethnicity of the perpetrator , Ministers launch a consultation on the new Islamophobia definition . that consultation be open only to carefully select , invite organisation ; it will last for only four week ; and it allow contributor to remain anonymous . in other word , as lot of people have put it to I , it be rig , and that be completely unacceptable . Parliament repeal blasphemy law year ago , and trial for blasphemy have stop many decade back in any case , but they be with we once more . Parliament must act to restore our freedom of expression . briefly , I would like to express my support for new clause 11 . I declare my interest , as I be chair of the RMT parliamentary group and this issue be part of our campaigning , particularly give the rise number of assault on bus driver at the moment . I also express my support for new clause 13 , and congratulate the hon . member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) on her determined campaign on the joint enterprise initiative . of course , I also support new clause 50 , which deal with the right to protest , and who could not support new clause 122 after the speech we have hear from Labour Members today ? I want to raise an anomaly that have arise in debate about terrorism legislation since 2020 . I do not want to go into too much technical detail , but basically , section 69 ( 3 ) of the Sentencing Act 2020 give the Crown Prosecution Service the power to allege a terrorist connection " if the offence … ( a ) be , or take place in the course of , an act of terrorism , or ( b ) be commit for the purpose of terrorism . " the implementation of that legislation mean that if an offence be determined to have a terrorist connection , the sentence become aggravate and harsh restriction be impose , both within prison and on release . I believe that have cross - party support — there be no problem with it . however , in 2021 , the Counter - Terrorism and Sentencing Act come along . the power in the Sentencing Act relate to schedule 1 offence such as murder , kidnapping and hijacking — thing that we would naturally consider to be terrorism . the Counter - Terrorism and Sentencing Act extend the use of that definition to an offence that be " punishable on indictment with imprisonment for more than 2 year " . by move away from a schedule of offence , almost any offence before the Crown court meeting that definition be bring into consideration . for example , protest case involve damage of more than £ 5 , 000 become interpret as terrorist - connect case . when we have have discussion about terrorism , we have always have problem with definition . Lord Carlile do a report for we way back in 2007 , and he say that jury trial be one of the guard that can assist in protect we from the misinterpretation of the range of definition . he say that " jury trial provide an important protection against prosecution the public find unreasonable or arbitrary . " the problem be that the use of this section of the Counter - Terrorism and Sentencing Act 2021 do not involve jury . such thing be not bring before a jury ; it be apply only by the judge at sentencing . as a result , we have find that since late 2024 , the provision in the 2021 Act have be deploy for the first time against protester . someone who have possibly commit criminal damage , aggravate burglary or , yes , violent disorder in a protest activity now find themselves with a terrorist connection allegation . that will never be bring before a jury , because it will be apply only at sentencing . Amnesty International have express its concern about direct action protest be subject to the UK ' s overly broad definition of terrorism law , which be " open to misuse and abuse " . four UN rapporteur have express their concern to the Government about the misuse of the terrorism legislation in this instance . they have say that the legislation be be use against political prisoner , which be raise concern about the potential infringement of their fundamental right . I raise that issue here because an increase number of case be be trap by a misinterpretation of the legislation that we bring forward in 2020 and 2021 . that be result , I think , in injustice and miscarriage of justice , an anomaly which we will have to address at some point if we do not address in this Bill , to correct a crucial misinterpretation of what this House intend back in 2021 . rise — the speak limit be now reduce to four minute . I will not be able to speak to all the amendment that member have work so hard on and that I have support so many time by put my name to they , but the member know that I support they . new clause 21 , 25 , 13 , 18 , 10 , 43 and , in particular , new clause 122 be all important proposal that the Government should listen to . I do not support new clause 7 from the official Opposition , and I can not support new clause 2 and 3 , as I do not believe there be any evidence that those measure would help make sex worker safe . we have to respect evidence and listen to sex worker and their voice on these issue . principally , I rise today to speak to my new clause 26 , 27 , 109 , 30 and 49 , and new clause 50 from the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) . first , new clause 26 would require the Home Office to publish quarterly datum on antisocial behaviour order , include the number of time that stop - and - search power be use prior to such order be issue and the protect characteristic of individual who receive those order . that be important scrutiny to make sure the power be be exercise fairly . new clause 27 would enable regulation to vary the ability of police force to use stop - and - search power . specifically , it would require the Government to suspend the use of those power by any police force subject to Engage status under his Majesty ' s inspectorate of constabulary and fire and rescue service . if a force have reach the point of require formal monitoring due to systemic issue , it be right that the most intrusive and abuse police power be subject to heighten scrutiny or even suspension . new clause 30 would prohibit the deployment and use of certain form of " predictive " police technology , particularly those that rely on automate decision - making , profiling and artificial intelligence , to assess the likelihood that individual or group will commit criminal offence . my hon . friend will recognise that danger . such technology , however cleverly sell , will always need to be build on exist , flawed police datum , or datum from other flawed and biased public and private source . that mean that community that have historically be over - policed will be more likely to be identify as be " at risk " of future criminal behaviour . as I have always say in the context of facial recognition , question of accuracy and bias be not the only reason to be against these technology . at their heart they infringe human right , include the right to privacy and the right to be presume innocent . my new clause 49 and new clause 50 , table by the hon . member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) , be intend to preserve our right to protest . my new clause would remove the definition of " serious disruption " from the Public Order Act 2023 . that new concept be extremely broad and lead to arbitrary application and confusion , with police impose criminal sanction and other anti - protest measure on action that simply do not qualify . Liberty recently win a judicial review case in the Court of Appeal relate to the Public Order Act 1986 ( Serious Disruption to the Life of the Community ) Regulations 2023 . the regulation seek to define the phrase " serious disruption " , but the court side with Liberty . however , because the same wording as that which be challenge be use in section 34 of the Public Order Act , the definition remain in force . leave it in place be legally confusing , and could breach our obligation under article 10 and 11 of the european convention on human right . I therefore urge my colleague to support the new clause . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , and my membership of the trade union USDAW . I rise to support new clause 48 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) . before become a Member of Parliament , I be proud to campaign for many year alongside retail worker as part of USDAW ' s Freedom from Fear campaign , which successfully highlight the epidemic of abuse and violence face by retail worker and bring together worker , employer and sectoral body . for year there have be consensus outside this place that something need to be do , but here there have be no consensus . warm word do not lead to the necessary action from the last government . the sacrifice make by retail worker during the pandemic be quickly forget , and give that the late figure from USDAW show that one in 10 retail worker and one in eight delivery driver have be assault at work in the past 12 month , it be well past time for we all to remember that these be frontline worker provide a vital service . that be why the introduction of a new stand - alone offence of assault a retail worker be so vital and so welcome . too many worker have suffer life - change injury while simply try to enforce the law or provide a service . uphold age - restrict sale be a key part of their role , bring with it unique challenge . it be not a small responsibility , but a legal duty that often act as a flashpoint for abuse . failure to comply carry serious consequence for the worker , include disciplinary action or prosecution . we in this Chamber put that duty on they , we hold they accountable , and we need to give they the protection that they deserve . the new stand - alone offence will provide a clear deterrent , give prosecutor well tool , and send a powerful message to offender that abuse will not be tolerate . I thank my hon . friend for support the new clause and for sign it , along with other member . do he agree that our hard - work delivery driver in the freight and logistic sector also need such backing , give that they often face attack at knifepoint while deliver what our country need ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s intervention , but I do not need to interrupt my speech , because I be about to deal with exactly that point . new clause 48 would create a specific offence along similar line to cover delivery worker , which be incredibly welcome . these worker deserve protection just as much as in - store staff . they , too , be require to enforce the law and conduct age check , and this Bill place additional requirement on they regard the delivery of knife . but unlike in - store staff , they carry out their work without the safety net of colleague , security or familiar surrounding . as be the case in Scotland follow the passage of the Protection of Workers ( Retail and age - restrict Goods and Services ) ( Scotland ) Act 2021 , home delivery driver must be include . it be only right that delivery worker in England and Wales receive equal protection , which must not stop at the shop door . we should never underestimate the important contribution of retail worker . they serve our community , bring essential to our door and keep the nation feed . without they , the country would grind to a halt . new clause 48 provide the opportunity to give retail worker the protection they so obviously deserve , and I urge hon . member to take that opportunity and to send a clear message from this place that abuse be not part of the job . I rise to support new clause 144 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) . on Monday , the Government hastily come to the House to deliver yet another u - turn and to announce a national inquiry into rape gang . it be apparent that this u - turn be force on they , because whenever any member of the public or Member of Parliament say that they want a national inquiry , the response from the Government be that they be " far right " , " jump on a bandwagon " or even blow a " dog whistle " — those be the word use by Ministers on the Front Bench . this be a hasty u - turn . in fact , those on the Government Front Bench be somewhat take aback , as it appear that the Prime Minister have appoint Baroness Casey of Blackstock in the hope that the whole thing would go away and that the inquiry would not happen . she say that she change her mind because of the weight of evidence that confront she . her word be , " I think I have surprise people in Downing Street and beyond . " she do , and the clincher be that the local inquiry be inadequate , because local authority could decide whether they be go to commission an inquiry and the Government would not intervene . she also say that of the five local inquiry , only one come forward — that be in Oldham . there be reluctance from local area to face up to the fact and to accept their failing . denial run through absolutely everything . denial be like a poisonous thread : it weave its way through all public body , strangle the truth and stop justice come forward . it be essential that an investigation be hold into all the failing of the police , local authority , prosecutor , charity and political party . the Prime Minister himself be in denial until Saturday , when the u - turn be force upon he . he often brandish his credential as the former director of public prosecution , and in 2014 he pen an article for the Guardian in which he acknowledge that there be at least 1 , 400 victim , but he do nothing until the U - turn be force upon he . we need to ask question about the statutory inquiry , because the public need to know the answer . who will chair the inquiry ? what type of inquiry will it be ? it already seem to have be water down . will it be independent , a national inquiry or , as it now seem , a national commission ? what be the term of reference ? it be not good enough to say that we will hear " in due course " . what be the inquiry ' s power ? that be unclear . will there be judicial power to subpoena people to give evidence ? I welcome the inquiry and the investigation into who be responsible for help this scourge to continue unabated , but do the right hon . Lady agree that the 20 recommendation of the Jay review urgently need to be implement and that the inquiry should not delay the implementation of those recommendation ? the inquiry should not delay that , but the inquiry need to be do with speed and haste , not be water down and not brush under the carpet , because it be essential that the victim ' voice be hear and that they have justice . the House also need assurance there will be no exemption from prosecution in exchange for evidence . it need to know if witness can be compel to produce document protect by public interest immunity . when will that happen ? it be not good enough that the Home Secretary be say that it would be three year away , close to a general election . it need to be do as soon as possible . I also wonder why it will be a statutory inquiry , not a criminal inquiry . be it because a criminal inquiry can lead to arrest , charge and criminal prosecution , whereas a statutory inquiry tend to make a series of recommendation to then be act on ? at the end of this inquiry , will we see prosecution ? will we see deportation ? time and again , we hear that community cohesion be put above working - class girl . that can not ever happen again . that issue be not investigate for fear of people be label racist can not ever happen again . if somebody do wrong , the colour of their skin or their religion do not matter : they have do wrong . if they have commit a criminal act it be right that they be bring to justice . this government will not get away with a water - down national inquiry . they have be drag kick and scream to deliver a national inquiry . that national inquiry need to be deliver . I rise to speak in strong support of new clause 122 , table by my hon . friend the Member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) . I be proud to be the first signatory to it , as I believe it represent a vital step forward in the protection of some of the most marginalised people in our society . new clause 122 would amend the Crime and Policing Bill to create aggravate offence where the underlie crime be motivate by hostility because of a person ' s sexual orientation , transgender identity , disability or perceive identity . it would align the legal treatment of those form of hate with the framework that already exist for racially and religiously aggravate offence . it deliver on a promise , a promise that we in the Labour party make in our manifesto to the british people : that we would act to close the gap in our hate crime law and provide equal protection to LGBT + people and disabled people in the criminal justice system . it be about live up to our value . labour be the party of equality , fairness before the law and stand with those whose voice have too often be ignore . that be why I join the Labour party and this amendment be root in that tradition . it be also fitting that we be table this new clause in Pride Month and in the wake of the Supreme Court ruling which have cause so much anguish among the trans community . we know the scale of the problem . hate crime base on sexual orientation have rise by 112 % over the last five year . against tran people , that figure be 186 % . the charity Galop , which support LGBT + victim of abuse , see a 60 % increase in referral in the last year alone . in the year end March 2024 , 11 , 719 disability hate crime incident be report . shamefully , just 1 % of that hate crime involve violence result in a charge . and yet , still , the majority of incident go unreported . too many victim still believe the system be not on their side . new clause 122 give we the opportunity to change that . it would give police and prosecutor a clear route to charge and convict offender in a way that truly reflect the nature of these crime . I know what it mean to think twice about how you walk down a street , to pause before hold someone ' s hand , and to wonder whether that shout from across the road be something that you can ignore or that you can not afford to ignore . and I know I be not alone in that . I have speak to my constituent and to people from far beyond , who tell I they do not feel safe reporting hate when it happen . they do not believe they will be take seriously . there be a profound failure of trust , one that we in this House have a duty to repair . this be also about dignity . it be about recognise that , whether you be a trans teenager be punch in a park , a gay couple be spat at on the tube , or a disabled man be harass on his way to work , all people deserve the full protection of the law . they deserve to know that this country be on their side , and that if they be target for who they be , justice will not look the other way . new clause 122 would provide vital protection for disabled people , who remain far too invisible in the public conversation around hate crime despite face damaging harassment , violence and abuse every single day . this change be recommend by the Law Commission and support by Stonewall , Galop and Disability Rights UK . I be proud that it be back by 104 right hon . and hon . member across the House . People be simply ask to live their life in peace and have the right support when thing go wrong . I hope we can take a step forward in advance LGBT + right and disability right today . I be proud to follow the hon . member for Burton and Uttoxeter ( Jacob Collier ) , who make an incredibly powerful speech . if people do not feel safe in their neighbourhood , those neighbourhood will not thrive ; child be deny their independence because parent fear let they walk to school or play in the park , while business suffer from not only the financial impact of shoplifting and worry about the safety of their worker , but the reluctance of customer — especially the elderly — who do not feel safe go out to those shop . when trust between different part of our community break down , the very fabric of our society be weaken . to lead good life , we all need to feel safe . I therefore welcome the Government ' s mission for safe street and the commitment in their manifesto , which rightly state : " visible neighbourhood policing be the cornerstone of the british consent - base model . in too many area it have be erode , leave the police a reactive service focus on crisis response , rather than prevent crime . " however , action speak louder than word . while the promise of thousand of extra police officer be welcome , the National Police Chiefs ' Council have make clear that the amount " fall far short of what be require to fund the Government ' s ambition " and maintain the exist workforce . it fully support the Government ' s drive to cut crime and grow officer number , but say that for those goal to succeed , " investment in policing must live up to the ambition . " let I bring this close to home . dorset be one of the lowest - fund police force in the country , and I , too , be sad that the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) be not present to hear I say that I agree with his concern about the funding formula . I be pleased that Dorset ' s crime level be low than in many other area , and accept that area that face daily serious crime need the investment . however , our small , semi - rural town and village often feel completely forget . in community across Mid Dorset and North Poole , organise shoplifting be now on the rise . offender know the chance of be catch be slim . I welcome the Bill ' s inclusion of the offence of assault a retail worker on behalf of Michelle , Nicola and Lewis , who have all write to I . one be tell by a shoplifter who have be apprehend in her shop , " I know where you live . " however , this new offence be meaningless without enough police officer embed in our neighbourhood . another retailer tell I : " we have extensive CCTV , headset , alarm system , panic button and ANPR camera " but the individual involve have no " respect or fear of police action . " they realise that the police be not equip to tackle it , and do not believe the Government think it be " politically important " . dorset be home to award - win beach , a world heritage coastline and many historic town and village . we be less than two hour from London , the home county and the midland . our population swell in the summer , put huge pressure on police service , yet there be no recognition in police budget of the need to boost police number to reflect the seasonal demand . that be why I support new clause 85 and 86 in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) , which would require minimum level of neighbourhood police . town like Wimborne and Wareham should not have their resource strip to support large coastal town . I be also proud to support new clause 122 , which would make offence aggravate when motivate by hostility towards sexual orientation , transgender identity or disability . we live in an increasingly divide society , and division and hate in the virtual world be fuel real - world crime . LGBT + people be four time more likely to experience violence than their straight counterpart ; disabled adult be three time more likely to experience domestic abuse ; and half of all transgender people have be sexually assault at least once in their lifetime . that be why I can not support new clause 7 , which would remove the recording and retention of non - crime hate incident . if we stop record those incident , what would I say to my constituent Samreena , who tell I : " I flee domestic violence . I be a practise Muslim and wear a hijab . since the day I arrive , I have face … problem because of my religious identity " ? she say that go to park , take the bus and go shop all feel like a " war zone " . we want safe street and safe home , but they will be safe only if they be safe for everyone . order . I intend to start Front - Bench speech at around 5 . 25 pm . it be completely unacceptable for anyone to face abuse , harassment or discrimination due to their race , disability , religion or belief , sexual orientation or gender identity . hate crime have a profound and lasting impact on their victim , as they target the very essence of who a person be . in the year end March 2024 , over 26 , 000 hate crime base on sexual orientation and nearly 5 , 000 target transgender individual be record in England and Wales . these be not just statistic . these be real people , and they represent real trauma and a systemic failure to protect some of the most marginalised member of our society . we have see this in my constituency with an appalling homophobic attack on a young man outside a local pub only this April . that be why I strongly support new clause 122 , table by my hon . friend the Member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) . the new clause would create statutory aggravate offence for crime motivate by hostility towards a person ' s sexual orientation , transgender identity or disability — or even the perception of these characteristic . it would also extend protection to those target because of their association with individual from these community . this amendment be a vital step in recognise the specific harm cause by hate - motivated offence . it ensure that perpetrator of such crime , whether they involve physical violence , harassment or criminal damage , be hold fully accountable under law . it send a clear message that hate have no place in our society , and that the law will reflect that . while the amendment strengthen the legal framework , we must acknowledge that legislation alone can not dismantle prejudice . we must go far . first , we must improve report mechanism . many LGBTQ and disabled individual do not report hate crime due to the fear of be dismiss or retraumatise . police force must build trust through community engagement and training that reflect the live experience of those most affected . secondly , we must invest in education . hatred be not innate ; it be learn . school must be empower to deliver inclusive curriculum that promote empathy , respect and understanding from an early age . education be our most powerful tool in prevent hate before it take root . thirdly , we must ensure that support service for victim be fully fund and accessible . that include mental health support , legal aid and safe space for those recover from trauma . victim must know that they be not alone and that help be available . my message be clear : everyone have the right to feel safe , and we must collectively adopt a zero - tolerance stance against hate crime . this amendment be not just a legal reform but a moral imperative , and for we it be a manifesto promise . it reflect the value of the Labour party and wide society , which consist of dignity , equality and justice for all . let we pass this amendment and continue the work of build a country where everyone can live free from fear and hatred . I call Shockat Adam to make the final Back - Bench speech . I would like to speak briefly to the issue of live facial recognition and new clause 21 and 22 in my name . new clause 21 call for a ban on live facial recognition because it be not safe , lack legal legitimacy and be an attack on the fundamental democratic right of the british people . it be the choice of authoritarian state and dictator and should have no place in british policing , which I remind the Minister be still by consent . the technology be not safe . it be describe by the Court of Appeal as " novel and controversial " . academic have show that the technology make mistake in the recognition of dark - skin woman in 21 % to 35 % of case , yet 99 % of light - skin man be identify correctly . caucasian female be also not safe — just ask Danielle Horan , who be escort out of not one but two Home Bargains store due to an apparent facial recognition mix - up . it be no wonder that the Court of Appeal , in strike down the south Wales experiment , rule it a breach of public sector equality duty in fail to recognise possible bias in the algorithm . facial recognition lack legal legitimacy by operate under vague common law power , unlike dna or fingerprint . it be also an attack on hard - win democratic right , undermine the principle that people should not be force to identify themselves to police without suspicion . it have be use to monitor protester , thus deter lawful participation and threaten free assembly , which be some of our most important and enshrined civil liberty . just ask the protester pick up in Russia ' s underground train station or protester and Uyghurs in China . the Government must think again . new clause 22 call for broad safeguard on automate decision make to ensure that law enforcement do not solely rely on AI algorithm and that there be always human review of its use . the new clause also call for transparency , for the right of people both to know what information be hold about they and to contest decision make by any AI , and to stop abuse by put in the necessary check . those check must meet high global standard , recommend by human right organisation , and the good practice standard of our neighbour in the EU . without human safeguard , the Government be usher in a " Minority Report " world — a potential dystopia where the computer simply say no and there be nothing we as individual can do about it . unamended , the Bill be dangerous and intrusive and break the fundamental contract between the british people and the police , along with the fundamental right to be consider innocent until prove otherwise . for those who think that that will never happen here , please take a look across the Atlantic . it certainly can happen here . it be time for the Government to admit that they have get this wrong . it be a sign of a strong , not a weak , Government if they listen to the evidence and change course as a result . live facial recognition be not the answer and will cause more problem than it claim to solve . it need to go . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . our community have be plague by crime and antisocial behaviour for too long . Change be clearly need after the former Conservative Government fail to get even the basic right on stop and solve crime . More than 4 , 500 police community support officer have be take off the street since 2015 , and more than 2 million crime go unsolved across England and Wales in 2024 . even though there be many measure that we welcome in this wide - range Bill — we have hear some impassioned speech today and I look forward to vote in favour of some change — it remain the case that opportunity for the Government to take real action in a number of area , from crack down on sewage dumping and rural crime to support a real return to proper neighbourhood policing , have not be take . I will focus my remark on the amendment in my name . the previous Conservative Government let water company get away with pumping sewage into our river and on to our beach for year , create an environmental crisis and a public health emergency while the company ' executive hand themselves huge bonus . this Government have take some step in the right direction , but in our opinion , they have not go nearly far enough . everyone deserve the right to enjoy clean , safe river in their local community , yet our waterway have be pollute , often with impunity , by water company that operate under weak regulation and with the complicity of a negligent Conservative Government , who vote time and again throughout the last Parliament against tough action on sewage dumping . the scale of the crisis be undeniable . accord to the Government ' s own datum , there be more than 500 , 000 sewage spill in 2024 alone , release 3 . 6 million hour ' worth of sewage into our river and coastal water . today , just 14 % of river and lake in the UK be in good ecological health , and despite that environmental failure , water company executive pocket £ 20 million in pay and bonus in the 2023 - 24 financial year . that be a damn reflection of a system that reward pollution and punish the public with high bill and dirty river . in my Hazel Grove constituency , sewage discharge into water body last year cumulatively last for almost 200 day . at the Otterspool Road outflow alone , sewage flow into the beautiful River Goyt for more than 1 , 000 hour . the Liberal Democrats have push , and will continue to push , to hold the company and their leadership to account . I particularly commend my hon . friend the Member for Witney ( Charlie Maynard ) for his effort in hold Thames Water to account for its failure . last year , a Liberal Democrat amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill suggest create an offence of fail to meet pollution performance commitment level , but it be defeat by the Conservative Government . as we have scrutinise this Bill , it be clear that we be again witness a government that do not go far enough to reform a broken water industry or hold polluter to account . Lib Dems have a plan to do exactly that . with new clause 87 , we would create a new offence of fail to meet pollution commitment level , while new clause 88 would create senior manager liability for failure to meet those commitment level . if this government be serious about end the national scandal of sewage dumping , they really should stop shield those responsible and start deliver real accountability . the people in our local community have a right to feel safe walk their street , but the previous Conservative Government demolish community policing , slash police community support officer number and leave more crime than ever unpunished . our community massively value the excellent work do by local police team , so they acutely feel this loss . I be sure that I be not alone in hear from constituent about a rise in shop theft — whether it be from pet shop , nail salon or even charity shop — and we have see that in my own constituency in recent month . I be also sure that I be not alone in hear report of people on illegal off - road bike intimidate resident and cause serious accident , as they do in Offerton and High Lane in my patch . liberal Democrat new clause 85 and 86 would help to restore community police — the visible , trust bobby on the beat . these new clause would guarantee minimum level of neighbourhood police and require every local authority in England and Wales to have a dedicated team assign solely to community - base duty . be my hon . friend as surprised as I be to hear the contribution from the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) , who seem to ridicule the concept of have a minimum level of police for community , which would surely protect they and help to prevent theft of farm equipment , which be the example he give in his speech . I do not know why anybody would be against a minimum level of neighbourhood police . it be in this Government ' s manifesto that they want to see a proper restoration of neighbourhood police . it be the model that have the most trust and the most support from my community — and , I be pretty sure , everybody ' s community — and it seem daft , frankly , to oppose such a measure . at no point do I say that I be against minimum level of neighbourhood police . I merely point out that the Liberal Democrats ' new clause be simply not good enough in articulate that point . this be where I would encourage the Liberal Democrats to put pressure on the Policing Minister to change the police allocation formula . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for time his arrival to the Chamber so beautifully — that be a skill . I agree with he about the importance of neighbourhood police . I also agree that the funding formula should put enough weight behind neighbourhood police so that all our community that need that strong neighbourhood police get it . [ interruption . ] I can not hear the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) , who be speak from a sedentary position , but I would be delighted to take an intervention . I be invite the hon . Lady to withdraw what she and her colleague say about my hon . friend , because it be incorrect . I do not recall mention the hon . member ' s hon . friend ; I say that somebody say that it be incorrect to have minimum level of neighbourhood policing be daft , and I hold to that belief . new clause 83 and 84 relate to rural crime . in rural area , organise gangs target farm machinery , vehicle and gps equipment , the cost of which soar to more than £ 52 million in 2023 , accord to the National Farmers ' Union . and I hear for myself , when I meet local farmer recently , about the impact that organise fly - tipping and equipment theft have . I must applaud the work of my hon . friend the Member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) , who have be remarkably effective in push the Government on this area . in particular , he secure from the Home Secretary a commitment to establish a new rural and wildlife crime strategy , which of course be welcome . liberal Democrat new clause 83 and 84 would extend the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 to explicitly include the theft of gps equipment and establish a rural crime taskforce to ensure that the new rural and wildlife crime strategy can be as effective as possible . something that be discuss often in this House be a duty of candour , and its introduction be a commitment that I welcome from this Government . justice must be accessible to all , and survivor should never have their trauma compound by government and court that fail to uncover the truth and hold those responsible to account — as happen after the Hillsborough disaster . it continue to be deeply disappointing to see how slow this Government have be in implement a legal duty of candour . new clause 89 would ensure that police officer must be open and honest in all investigation and oversight process , share relevant information proactively and truthfully . failure to do so would lead to misconduct charge , include serious consequence for intentional or reckless breach . too many police officer be struggle to access the mental health support they need , with a grow number on mental health leave as a result , so new clause 90 seek to deal with that issue . we would require every police force to ensure that all police get proper training on how to deal with that . I will conclude by commend my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) on his work on new clause 43 . he be dress in the colour of all party , represent the cross - party work he have carry out to get support for it . I urge the Government and colleague across the House to back that new clause and the change that I have outline so that our community get the action they so urgently need . I call the shadow Minister . I may have say it yesterday , but it can not be say enough : once again , I pay tribute to the hard work of police officer , pcso and police staff across the country . they put themselves in harm ' s way every day to keep our street safe , under immense pressure . I hope that every Member across the House will join I in thank they for their service . yesterday I mention the opposition ' s support for many of the measure in the Bill , although give that the vast majority be carry over from the previous Government ' s Criminal Justice Bill , it be probably no great surprise . enforce the Bill will require resource . I have already outline concern about funding for our police force and the devastating impact that will have on frontline police number . I ask that question of the Minister yesterday , and I be not quite sure I hear an answer . will the Minister confirm whether there will be more police officer at the end of this Parliament than the record high level achieve by the last government in March 2024 ? [ interruption . ] yes , the high number on record . I turn to new clause 130 , which relate to tool theft , and I declare an interest as the son of a builder . not a toolmaker ? he be not a toolmaker , no . tool theft be completely out of control , and I know the impact it have on people ' s life . research from Direct Line show that 45 , 000 tool theft be report to the police in a single year , amount to one every 12 minute . this country be build on the back of our tradesman — they be the small business that make a huge contribution to our economy and literally build the world around we . just imagine get up at daft o ' clock to go to work and earn a living , leave the house only to find your van have be completely raid and all the tool steal . the ability to work be steal as well . the impact be huge : it be not only the cost of replace the steal tool , but day of lose work and disappointed customer , many of whom may have take a day off work themselves . the issue be make bad still when tradesman go to car boot sale only to see steal equipment be sell in broad daylight , with no action take by the authority . in recent month I have be campaign alongside tradesman for real action on this issue . just last week the Leader of the Opposition and my hon . friend the Member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) meet tradesman , business and the police to hear at first hand about the impact . we hear from campaigner , include the gas expert Shoaib Awan and Frankie from on the Tools , alongside affect business such as Checkatrade , Balfour Beatty and BT Openreach . if the Conservatives have win a 15th year in government , would they have start to tackle this epidemic ? one of the thing we be do be put record funding into police and put a record number of police on the street . the one thing we be not do be tax our police force off the street . we be make huge progress . I would also like to mention Sergeant Dave Catlow of the Metropolitan police , who join we last week . he be do great work on this issue . new clause 130 propose three key change . first , fine for perpetrator would equate to the cost of replace equipment , repair the damage cause and the loss of work . secondly , theft of tool would be treat as an aggravated offence , mean tough sentence for the crook who steal tradesman ' s vital equipment . finally , council would be require to put in place an enforcement plan to crack down on the sale of steal tool at car boot sale . I will also take this opportunity to pay tribute to the hon . member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) for her campaign on this issue . I know how much she , too , want to see action on tool theft . as the Minister know , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) bring the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 through the House . it could make a real difference on this issue . will the Minister confirm when the Government will table a statutory instrument to put it into action ? I turn to non - crime hate incident . new clause 7 would change legislation and guidance to remove the recording and retention of non - crime hate incident . the use of non - crime hate incident have spiral out of all control and well beyond its originally intend purpose . the deal should be simple : if the law be break , justice must be serve . but non - crime hate incident be a different beast — you do not break the law ; you just say something daft and end up log on police record like a criminal . we need our police on the street , not police hurty word on Twitter . we have all see the utterly barmy story of a nine - year - old who insult another pupil in the playground . be that unkind ? yes , of course it be . but instead of a quiet word with a teacher or a call to the parent , the police be bring in . I appeal to member across the House — would they want that happen to their child , or would they rather give they a proper telling - off at home ? this also have a big effect . our police officer be be tie up document playground spat and Twitter comment , treat childish jibe like national security threat , while real crime such as burglary , robbery and even violent offence be be push to the back of the queue . in fact , research from Policy Exchange have find that , nationally , over 60 , 000 police hour be be spend on non - crime hate incident . our police need to get back to keep our street safe , not police silly word or childish playground issue . before conclude my remark , I would like to draw the House ' s attention to some of the Opposition ' s other amendment that could protect our community and keep our street safe . we would have be vote today on new clause 144 to secure that national statutory inquiry into groom gang — a scandal that be our country ' s shame . child sexual exploitation ruin live ; prey on the most vulnerable in our community , exploit they for horrific sexual act and often coerce they into a life of crime . a national inquiry be what the victim want , so I be glad that the Prime Minister have finally u - turn , give into the pressure and join what he describe as the far - right bandwagon of people who want a national inquiry . as the Leader of the opposition say yesterday , we must not have another whitewash . the national inquiry must ask the hard question and leave no stone unturned . criminal investigation must run in parallel to the inquiry . it must look at the whole system — Whitehall , the Crown Prosecution Service , the police and local authority — and wherever there be wrongdoing , there should be prosecution . foreign perpetrator must be immediately deport , and the inquiry must be fully independent , with statutory power cover all relevant town . local council simply can not be leave to investigate themselves . new clause 125 aim to reinstate people ' s confidence in police . we have recently see the perverse anti - racism commitment issue by the National Police Chiefs ' Council . it call for arrest rate to be artificially engineer to be the same across racial group . advice to treat black and white suspect differently be morally indefensible . it be , by definition , two - tier policing . it undermine trust and confidence in our police . this new clause would give the Home Secretary the power to amend or require the withdrawal of any code of practice intend to direct policing practice . new clause 139 make provision in relation to off - road bike . I know many member across the House know the havoc be cause by they in local community . the issue have be raise by member on both side of the House numerous time in Westminster Hall and in this place , and the tweak in approach that feature in this Bill will simply not be enough . use alternative legislation , the police be already able to seize off - road bike without notice . the new clause would remove the prohibition on the police enter a private dwelling to confiscate an off - road bike and ensure that police destroy seize bike rather than sell they back into the market . I urge the Minister — in fact , I beg she — to look again comprehensively at how we tackle the scourge of off - road bike . I would also like to draw the House ' s attention to new clause 131 , which would introduce mandatory deportation for foreign national find in possession of child sexual abuse image . these sick paedophile have no place in our country and they , along with all foreign offender , should be deport . to conclude , the british people want our police to be able to focus on put real criminal behind bar — the thief who nick our hard - work tradesman ' s tool — not spend time police playground squabble and treat they like crime . our opposition new clause be common - sense change that I hope the whole House will get behind , protect victim and restore police to what it be mean to be : tackle crime on our street . I thank all hon . and right hon . member , include the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) , and the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) who have take part in the debate , and in particular those who have bring forward new clause . there be well over 100 new clause in this group , so I be sure the House will appreciate that , sadly , I will not be able to cover they all . I will do my good in the time remain to respond to as many as I can . let I start with the new clause put forward by my hon . friend . on new clause 2 to 4 and 19 table by my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , I fully recognise the concern she raise and I be deeply sympathetic to the need to disrupt those who profit from the prostitution of mainly woman , include through online platform , to tackle demand for prostitution and to strengthen support for people who have be sexually exploit . regard online platform , the recently implement provision of the Online Safety Act 2023 , the ongoing work between law enforcement and Ofcom , and the new power in this Bill for law enforcement to suspend IP address and domain name for up to 12 month will all help tackle online sexual exploitation . we know we need to go far , and the Government be work closely with law enforcement and frontline support service to build an evidence base on how we can tackle online exploitation more effectively . my hon . friend will know that , in 2015 , the Street Offences Act 1959 be amend to apply the offence of loitering or solicit only to adult . however , those who be convict or caution for the offence while under 18 still live with the consequence , include reduced employment opportunity . in line with the commitment we make early this week arise from the Casey report , I can therefore commit to bring forward amendment in the Lords to introduce a new disregard and pardon scheme for anyone convict or caution as a child for the offence of loitering or solicit . although the offence be rarely use today , I be mindful that on - street prostitution continue to have an impact on local community , so I can not commit to the complete repeal of the offence propose in the new clause until there have be an opportunity to consult properly with community . my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) and the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) have put forward similar new clause — 102 and 121 — that seek to amend the offence of possession of extreme pornographic image . I pay tribute to they for their work on the matter . there be absolutely no place for violent , misogynistic and harmful content online that perpetuate violent view against woman and girl and have the effect of do they great harm . we know that the increase prevalence of the kind of content outline in these amendment be fuel violent sexual encounter . there be issue with the drafting for both new clause , but the Government support their underlying aim . accordingly , I be pleased to say that we will bring forward amendment in the Lords to criminalise pornography depict strangulation and suffocation . my hon . friend the Member for Lowestoft also have new clause 103 to 105 , which seek to implement other recommendation of Baroness Bertin ' s pornography review . the sentiment behind the new clause be important to we all — tackle violence against woman and girl be a defining mission of this Government . while we can not support new clause 103 today , I reassure she that there be ongoing work in this area and that we will report back on that . move on to new clause 122 , I thank my hon . friend the Member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) for put forward the new clause and for all her work campaign in this space . we hear many excellent speech from hon . member on this issue . the new clause would make all exist strand of hate crime an aggravate offence . crime target at disabled , LGBT + and transgend people be disgraceful , and the shocking figure that she reference , include the steep increase in hate crime towards transgender people , can not be tolerate . she know that the Government support this change , as we set out in our manifesto last year . I can confirm to the House that in Committee in the Lords we will bring forward a suitable Government amendment to give effect to that commitment . let I turn to the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) . I want to state first of all my ongoing admiration for her tenacity and persistence in always seek to protect victim , the voiceless and survivor . the House owe she a huge debt of gratitude for her work in this area . we will consider her excellent contribution today . on new clause 18 , I reassure she that the detailed statutory guidance on the new child criminal exploitation offence , which will be use by the police to apply the legislation base on the practical circumstance of case that they deal with , will include the definition of " child criminal exploitation " , set out in layman ' s term the conduct capture by the offence that amount to CCE . I turn now to new clause 43 , table by the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) , who refer to his meeting with the Minister for Safeguarding , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) just yesterday . I reassure he that tackle public sexual harassment be an important part of our mission to halve level of violence against woman and girl in a decade . we be continue to consider measure to address sex - base harassment , include the commencement of this legislation . the new violence against woman and girl strategy will set out improvement in the way that we will tackle sexual harassment . the strategy be due to be publish before the summer recess . his new clause would tie commencement of the Act to the timeline of this Bill , however , when it be important that it be bring into force follow the conclusion of our work with the police and other agency , so that its introduction be manage effectively . it therefore need to be commence by regulation , in the normal way . I turn now to new clause 44 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) . she will be aware that the independent domestic homicide sentencing review undertake by Clare Wade KC , which consider the issue of honour - base abuse , will lead in due course to a number of change in legislation , particularly on aggravating factor relate to control or coercive behaviour . we expect those change to cover many of the instance of honour - base abuse that my hon . Friend want to address through her new clause . as she will be aware , the Lord Chancellor have ask the Law Commission to undertake a wholesale review of the sentencing framework for murder , as well as of the law relate to homicide offence . I turn now to the new clause table by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) . he have table no few than 30 new clause , which have give I a distinct sense of d é j à vu give that we see they in Committee , where I or my hon . friend respond to they at length . I be pleased that he table new clause 130 for debate today — he make a powerful case for it . I completely acknowledge the importance of take strong action against the theft of tool from tradespeople and against the reselling of those steal tool — a view that he and many other hon . member set out . we know that it rob tradespeople twice , both of the value of their equipment and of the ability to earn a living . I know that my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) be work closely — will the Minister give way ? happy to . I thank the Minister for acknowledge how tool theft affect people ' s life . do she agree that this be not just about police on our street and arrest , but about sentencing , and will she work with I , across Departments , to ensure that the aggravated circumstance power that the court already have reflect the real cost of such crime ? yes , I be very happy to do that . I congratulate my hon . friend on take this campaign forward and on be such a worthy advocate for it . we take the issue very seriously and we be fully commit to implement the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 . we be finalise our plan for commencement and we will update the House in due course . on that point , will the Minister give way ? I be go to keep go , because I be conscious that I do not have much time . to reiterate to the shadow Minister what I say in Committee , my right hon . friend the Home Secretary have be clear that a consistent and common - sense approach must be take with non - crime hate incident . accordingly , it have be agree with the National Police Chiefs ' Council and the College of Policing that they will conduct a review of this area . I say to the shadow Minister that it be the shadow Home Secretary , when he be the Policing Minister , who introduce the current code of practice and police guidance on non - crime hate incident . he say : " the Government fully recognise the importance of ensure that vulnerable individual , group and community continue to be protect by the police ; indeed , this be the purpose of non - crime hate incident recording . we be confident that the code do precisely this . " it seem odd that he say that the approach be right at that stage , but now he want to scrap it . on new clause 144 , I be disappoint that the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) seem to have miss the announcement make by the Home Secretary on Monday , which answer a number of her question . the shadow Minister do not seem to be aware of the announcement either . use exist legislation in the Inquiries Act 2005 , the independent commission will be set up under a national inquiry with full power to compel individual to testify , with the aim of hold institution to account for current and historic failure in their response to group - base child sexual exploitation . the Home Secretary be clear that she be accept all the recommendation from Baroness Casey . on that point , will the Minister give way ? no , I be go to carry on . the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) mention new clause 87 and 88 . this government have be clear that water company must accelerate action to reduce pollution to the environment . the Water ( Special Measures ) Act , which receive Royal Assent early this year , significantly strengthen the power of the regulator and deliver on the Government ' s commitment to put fail water company under special measure . among other measure , the Act introduce automatic penalty on polluter and ban bonus for water company executive if they fail to meet adequate standard . on that point , will the Minister give way ? no . on new clause 85 and 86 about neighbourhood policing , it be clear that this Government be start to implement our neighbourhood policing guarantee . on new clause 13 , introduce by my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) , the Government recognise the serious consequence that can result from joint enterprise conviction . however , joint enterprise ensure that those who act together in commit a crime be all hold responsible . we see that in the case of Ben Kinsella and Garry Newlove , as well as many other . we be aware of the concern raise by my hon . friend and we will continue to look at that . I apologise to right hon . and hon . member for not be able to get through all 100 amendment that be table . I also need to leave time for the person whose new clause lead the group to respond . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the new clause . new clause 2 , by leave , withdraw . New Clause 7 - Abolition of non - crime hate incident " ( 1 ) Non - crime hate incident as a special category of incident to be recognise by police authority be abolish . report , recording and investigation of such incident should occur only in the limited circumstance provide for in this section . ( 2 ) for the purpose of article 6 ( 1 ) of the UK GDPR , section 35 of the Data Protection Act 2018 ( " the Act " ) and article 8 of the Law Enforcement Directive , the processing of relevant datum by a police authority be unlawful . ( 3 ) in this section , " relevant datum " mean personal datum relate to the conduct or allege of a datum subject which be unlikely to constitute criminal conduct and which have be perceive by another person to be motivate ( wholly or partly ) by hostility or prejudice towards one or more person who have or who be or have be perceive to have one or more relevant characteristic and with that hostility or prejudice arise due to that or the perception of those protect characteristic . ( 4 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 3 ) , the follow be relevant characteristic — ( a ) race , ( b ) religion , ( c ) sexual orientation , ( d ) disability , ( e ) transgender identity . ( 5 ) subsection ( 2 ) do not apply in respect of the processing of relevant datum — ( a ) pursuant to an ongoing criminal investigation or prosecution , ( b ) for the purpose of the internal administrative function of the police authority . ( 6 ) subsection ( 2 ) do not apply in respect of the retention of a record ( a " non - crime perception record " ) of relevant datum where a police officer ( the " certify officer " ) of the rank of inspector or above certifie that in their opinion the retention of the non - crime perception record be likely materially to assist in the detection or prevention of criminal conduct which may occur in the future . ( 7 ) where a certify officer certify the retention of a non - crime perception record pursuant to subsection ( 6 ) — ( a ) the certify officer must include in the record a description of the future criminal conduct they have in mind and the reason they believe that the retention of the record may assist in its detection or prevention , ( b ) the relevant datum which may be retain as part of the record may be no more than the certify officer believe be likely materially to assist in the detection or prevention of criminal conduct , ( c ) a copy of the record must be expeditiously provide to the datum subject unless an officer of the of the rank of superintendent or above certifie that — ( i ) the provision of the record to the datum subject may interfere in the detection or prevention of criminal conduct , or ( ii ) the officer be satisfied that it be not reasonably practicable to provide a copy of the record to the data subject . ( 8 ) if the datum subject object to the retention of the non - crime perception record , subsection ( 6 ) do not apply unless a police officer of the rank of superintendent or above certifie that in their opinion the retention of the non - crime perception record be likely materially to assist in the detection or prevention of criminal conduct which may occur in the future . ( 9 ) no police authority or police officer can be hold under any circumstance to be under any duty to undertake the retention of any relevant datum . ( 10 ) after subsection 113B ( 3 ) of the Police Act 1997 insert — " ( 3A ) an enhance criminal record certificate must not give the detail of a relevant matter to the extent that do so would result in the disclosure of relevant datum as define in section ( the retention by the police of non - crime perception record ) of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 . " ( 11 ) for subsection 39a ( 3 ) of the Police Act 1996 substitute — " ( 3 ) no part of any Code of Practice issue by the College of Policing may be in a form which could be issue by the Secretary of State pursuant to section 60 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 . " ( 12 ) section 60 the 2022 Act be to be amend as follow — ( a ) the cross head to be change to " Non - crime perception record " , ( b ) the section head to be change to " Code of practice relate to non - crime perception record " , ( c ) in subsection ( 1 ) leave out from " by " to the end of the subsection and insert " of relevant datum " , ( d ) omit subsection ( 2 ) , ( e ) in subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) , leave out " personal datum relate to a hate incident " and insert " relevant datum " , ( f ) in subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) , ( c ) , ( d ) and ( e ) , for " such personal datum " substitute " relevant datum " , ( g ) in subsection ( 4 ) ( a ) , for " personal datum " substitute " relevant datum " , ( h ) in subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) , leave out " personal datum relate to the alleged perpetrator of a hate incident " and insert " relevant datum relate to the alleged perpetrator " , ( i ) in subsection ( 7 ) , at end , insert " relevant datum " have the meaning give by section ( the retention by the police of non - crime perception record ) of the Crime and Policing Act 2025 " . ( 13 ) any code of practice previously issue under section 60 of the 2022 Act be deem to be withdraw . ( 14 ) within three month of the commencement of each calendar year , each police authority which be retain non - crime perception record must — ( a ) undertake a review of the relevant datum by an independent person to ensure that any retention of such record be in compliance with the provision of this section . ( b ) publish a report in respect of the review prepare by the independent person include set — ( i ) the total number of non - crime perception record retain by the police authority ; ( ii ) the total number of datum subject to which those record relate ; and ( iii ) the equivalent number of those record add in the previous year . ( 15 ) in this section — ( a ) " a police authority " mean — ( i ) a person specify or describe in paragraph 5 to 17 of Schedule 7 of the Act , ( ii ) a person act under the authority of such a person , ( b ) the term " datum subject " , " process " and " the UK GDPR " have the same meaning as under section 3 of the Act , ( c ) " the Law Enforcement Directive " mean the Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 680 of the European Parliament , ( d ) " the 2022 Act " mean the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 . " — ( Matt Vickers . ) bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Andrew Snowden David Simmonds Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael Alistair carn David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Ann davy Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Pippa Heylings Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Ben Maguire Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Calum Miller John Milne Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter Lisa Smart Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Anna McMorrin Martin McCluskey the House divide : Ayes 102 , Noes 390 . question accordingly negative . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 17 June ) . the Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . New Clause 43 - Commencement of the Protection from Sex - base Harassment in Public Act " ( 1 ) section 4 of the Protection from Sex - base Harassment in Public Act 2023 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) leave out subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) and insert — ' ( 3 ) section 1 , 2 and 3 come into force on the day that the Crime and Policing Act 2025 receive Royal Assent ' . " — ( Mike Martin . ) this new clause automatically commence protection from Sex - base Harassment in Public Act 2023 when the Crime and Policing Bill receive Royal Assent , remove the need for regulation to bring the Act into force . the Act criminalise the public harassment of individual where that harassment be base on an individual ' s sex . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Bob Blackman Karen Bradley Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth Davies Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin Louie French Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Peter Lamb John Lamont Julian Lewis Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Adrian Ramsay David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Bobby Dean will Forster Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Clive Betts Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna McMorrin Martin McCluskey the House divide : Ayes 147 , Noes 305 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 88 - senior manager liability for failure to meet pollution performance commitment level " ( 1 ) a person ( ' p ' ) commit an offence where — ( a ) p be a senior manager of a water or water and sewerage company ( ' c ' ) , ( b ) c commit an offence under section [ offence of fail to meet pollution performance commitment level ] , and ( c ) p have fail to take all reasonable step to prevent that offence be commit by C . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section — ' senior manager ' mean an individual who play a significant role in — ( a ) the making of decision about how C ' s relevant activity be to be manage or organise , or ( b ) the actual managing or organising of c ' s relevant activity ; ( 3 ) where p be charge with an offence under this section , it be a defence for p to show that p be a senior manager of C for such a short time during the relevant period that p could not reasonably have be expect to take step to prevent that offence be commit by C . ( 4 ) where p be guilty of an offence under this section , p be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to a fine ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to a fine . " — ( Lisa Smart . ) this new clause create senior manager liability for failure to meet pollution performance commitment level . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth Davies Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Alan Mak Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Claire Young Bobby Dean will Forster Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Clive Betts Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Martin McCluskey Anna McMorrin the House divide : Ayes 178 , Noes 313 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 121 - Amendment of Possession of extreme pornographic image " ( 1 ) section 63 of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 ( possession of extreme pornographic image ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 7 ) after paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( aa ) an act which affect a person ' s ability to breathe and constitute battery of that person . " " . — ( dame Caroline Dinenage . ) this amendment would extend the legal definition of the extreme pornography to include the depiction of nonfatal strangulation . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Apsana Begum Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Ann davy Gareth Davies Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Andrew Snowden Gregory Stafford Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Clive Betts Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Martin McCluskey Anna McMorrin the House divide : Ayes 114 , Noes 310 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 130 - theft of tool : prevention of re - sale and prosecution of offence ( 1 ) the Equipment Theft Act 2023 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 3 ( Enforcement ) , subsection ( 2 ) at end insert " equal to — ( a ) the replacement cost of the equipment , ( b ) the cost of repair any damage cause during the theft , and ( c ) the trading loss incur by the offended party . " ( 3 ) in section 3 ( Enforcement ) , after subsection ( 3 ) insert — " ( 3A ) an enforcement authority must put in place an enforcement plan to enforce regulation make under section 1 at temporary market in their area . " ( 4 ) the Sentencing Act 2020 be amend as follow . ( 5 ) in chapter 3 , Aggravating Factors , after section 72 insert — ' 72a theft of tool from tradesman ( 1 ) this section apply where the court be consider the seriousness of an offence specify in section 7 of the Theft Act 1968 . ( 2 ) if the theft be of tool from a tradesman , the court — ( a ) must treat that fact as an aggravating factor , and ( b ) must state in open court that the offence be so aggravated . ' " — ( Matt Vickers . ) bring up , question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth Davies Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Rachel Gilmour Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Alan Mak Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young David Simmonds Andrew Snowden Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Clive Betts Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna McMorrin Martin McCluskey the House divide : Ayes 178 , Noes 313 . question accordingly negative . clause 166 - Powers to make consequential amendment etc amendment make : 102 , page 186 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( c ) section 99 . " this amendment enable the Scottish Ministers to make amendment in consequence of clause 99 ( which provide for new offence in relation to dangerous cycling etc ) that be within Scottish devolve competence . amendment 103 , page 186 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( c ) section 127 ( 3 ) and schedule ( confiscation order : Scotland ) . " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment enable the Scottish Ministers to make amendment in consequence of NS2 ( which contain provision about confiscation order in Scotland ) that be within Scottish devolve competence . clause 167 - regulation Amendments make : 104 , page 186 , line 36 , after " 55 ( 1 ) , " insert " ( cause internal concealment of item for criminal purpose ) ( 9 ) , " this amendment make regulation under the Secretary of State ' s power to amend the list of specify item in NC56 subject to the affirmative resolution procedure . amendment 105 , page 186 , line 36 , after " 55 ( 1 ) , " insert " 59 ( 6 ) , " this amendment make regulation which amend the list of child sexual exploitation and abuse offence specify for the purpose of clause 59 subject to the affirmative parliamentary procedure . amendment 106 , page 186 , line 36 , leave out " or 112 " and insert " 112 , ( section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) : interpretation ) ( 2 ) ( a ) or ( b ) or ( section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) : confidential information ) ( 7 ) " this amendment provide for the regulation - make power in NC65 and NC66 to be subject to the affirmative procedure . Amendment 107 , page 186 , line 36 , at end insert " or ( meaning of " law enforcement employer " ) ( 1 ) ( k ) " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment provide for regulation specify additional " law enforcement employer " for the purpose of NC71 to NC76 to be subject to the affirmative procedure . clause 169 - Extent Amendments make : 108 , page 188 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( ba ) section 37 ( 2 ) ( d ) ; " this amendment provide for clause 37 ( 2 ) ( d ) ( which amend the Armed Forces Act 2006 ) to have UK extent . amendment 109 , page 188 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( ba ) section 38 and ( prove an offence under section 38 ) ; " this amendment provide for clause 38 and NC54 to extend to Scotland and Northern Ireland ( as well as England and Wales ) . amendment 110 , page 188 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( ca ) section ( Secretary of State guidance ) ; " this amendment provide for NC57 to have UK extent . amendment 111 , page 188 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( da ) section 64 ( 2 ) ; " this amendment provide for clause 64 ( 2 ) ( which amend the Armed Forces Act 2006 ) to have UK extent . amendment 112 , page 188 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( na ) section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) , ( section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) : supplementary ) , ( section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) : interpretation ) , ( section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) : confidential information ) and ( section ( extraction of online information follow seizure of electronic device ) : code of practice ) ; " this amendment provide for NC63 to NC67 to have UK extent . amendment 113 , page 188 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( na ) section ( extraction of online information follow agreement etc ) ; " this amendment provide for NC69 to have UK extent . amendment 114 , page 188 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( oa ) section ( law enforcement employer may not employ etc bar person ) to ( special police force : bar person list and advisory list ) and Schedule ( special police force : bar person list and advisory list ) ; " this amendment provide for NC71 to NC78 and NS3 to have UK extent . amendment 115 , page 188 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( r ) paragraph 17 of Schedule 9 . " this amendment provide for paragraph 17 of schedule 9 ( which amend the Armed Forces Act 2006 ) to have UK extent . amendment 116 , page 188 , line 22 , after " section " insert " ( Department of Justice guidance ) , " this amendment provide for the guidance provision insert by NC58 to extend to Northern Ireland only . amendment 117 , page 188 , line 22 , after " 160 " insert " , and paragraph 4 ( 3 ) and 5 ( 5 ) of Schedule 16 , " this amendment of the extent clause provide for the transitional provision in the Schedule about confiscation order in Northern Ireland to have Northern Ireland extent . amendment 118 , page 188 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) section 127 ( 3 ) and schedule ( confiscation order : Scotland ) extend to Scotland . " this amendment of the extent clause be consequential on amendment 88 and NS2 . Amendment 119 , page 188 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( ja ) section 114 to 116 ; " this amendment provide that amendment make by clause 114 to 116 ( which be insert into the Bill at Committee stage ) have the same extent as the provision amend . amendment 120 , page 188 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( ja ) section ( extraction of online information : port and border security ) ; " this amendment provide for the amendment make by NC68 to have the same extent as the provision they amend . Amendment 121 , page 188 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( ja ) section ( lawful interception of communication ) ; " this amendment provide for any amendment make by NC70 to have the same extent as the provision amend . amendment 122 , page 188 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( la ) section ( port and border security : retention and copying of article ) ; " this amendment provide for the amendment make by NC81 to have the same extent as the provision they amend . amendment 123 , page 188 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( la ) section ( extradition : case where a person have be convict ) " this amendment be consequential on Amendment NC82 . amendment 124 , page 188 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( ma ) Schedule ( amendment to chapter 3 of Part 2 of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 ) ; " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment provide for any amendment make by NS1 to have the same extent as the provision amend . clause 170 - Commencement Amendments make : 125 , page 189 , line 20 , leave out " 52 " and insert " ( Secretary of State guidance ) , ( Department of Justice guidance ) " this amendment provide for the guidance provision insert by NC57 and NC58 to commence on Royal Assent . amendment 126 , page 189 , line 21 , after " section " insert " ( cause internal concealment of item for criminal purpose ) , " this amendment make the Secretary of State ' s power to amend the list of specify item in NC56 come into force on Royal Assent . amendment 127 , page 189 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( aa ) section ( Removal of limitation period in child sexual abuse case ) ; " this amendment provide for NC59 to come into force two month after Royal Assent . amendment 128 , page 189 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( aa ) section 114 ; ( ab ) section 116 ; " this amendment make clause 114 and 116 ( which be insert into the Bill at Committee stage ) commence two month after Royal Assent . amendment 129 , page 189 , line 39 , at begin insert " Sections 38 and ( prove an offence under section 38 ) , and " this amendment provide for clause 38 and NC54 to come into force , so far as extend to Scotland or Northern Ireland , by order make by the Scottish Ministers or the Department of Justice respectively . amendment 130 , page 190 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( za ) section 56 ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) ( c ) so far as relate to an offence under section 38 ; " this amendment provide for certain provision of clause 56 which contain supplementary provision for Northern Ireland for offence under clause 38 to come into force in accordance with an order make by the Department of Justice . Amendment 131 , page 190 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 8a ) section 127 ( 3 ) and schedule ( confiscation order : Scotland ) come into force on such day as the Scottish Ministers may by order appoint . " this amendment of the commencement clause provide that the Scottish Ministers may bring into force the provision about confiscation order in Scotland which be add to the Bill by amendment 88 and NS2 . amendment 132 , page 190 , line 9 , leave out " or ( 8 ) " and insert " , ( 8 ) or ( 8a ) " this amendment of the commencement clause enable transitional or save provision , and different provision for different purpose , to be include in an order bring into force the provision about confiscation order in Scotland which be add to the Bill by amendment 88 and NS2 . amendment 133 , page 190 , line 12 , after " ( 7 ) ( a ) " insert " or ( 8a ) " — ( Dame Diana Johnson . ) this amendment of the commencement clause be consequential on amendment 131 . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order 17 June ) . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83e ) , that the Bill be now read the third time . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Emily Darlington Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Chris Evans Luke Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna McMorrin Martin McCluskey Shockat Adam Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Apsana Begum Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Danny Kruger Katie Lam Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Joy Morrissey Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Helen Whately Gavin Williamson Mike Wood David Simmonds Andrew Snowden the House divide : Ayes 312 , Noes 95 . question accordingly agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . defer Divisions Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 41a ( 3 ) ) , that , at this day ' s sit , Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply to the Motion in the name of Lucy Powell relate to estimate ( Liaison Committee Recommendation ) . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , proceed of Crime that the draft Proceeds of Crime ( Money Laundering ) ( Threshold Amount ) ( amendment ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 13 May , be approve . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . estimate ( Liaison Committee Recommendation ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 145 ( 3 ) ) , that this House agree with the Report of the Liaison Committee of 17 June : ( 1 ) that a day not later than 5 August be allot for the consideration of the following estimate for the financial year 2025 – 26 : Department for Education ; Department of Health and Social Care ; and Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government ; and ( 2 ) that a further day not later than 5 August be allot for consideration of the following estimate for the financial year 2025 – 26 : Ministry of Justice , in so far as it relate to criminal justice ; Ministry of Defence , in so far as it relate to the remit of the National Armaments Director ; and Department for Transport . — ( Anna Turley . ) question agree to . Petition - Anti - Stab and Anti - Slash Protective Gear in Prisons I rise to present this petition in the light of recent horrific attack on prison officer by inmate . debate about whether prison officer should all be provide with anti - stab and anti - slash gear have be bring to the forefront of political discussion recently . we know that attack can happen in any prison , as it do to my very brave constituent Claire Lewis , who as a result set up a Change . org petition call for mandatory protective gear — it currently have 32 , 000 signature . we must ensure that this be available to all officer , not just those work in high - security prison . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to ensure that all prison officer be equip with mandatory anti - stab and anti - slash protective gear to keep they safe from violent prisoner . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Washington and Gateshead South declare that the government and prison authority should make anti - stab and anti - slash protective gear mandatory for all prison officer . there be also a separate online petition on this issue , which have generate over 32 , 000 signature . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to ensure that all prison officer be equip with mandatory anti - stab and anti - slash protective gear to keep they safe from violent prisoner . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003083 ] post - industrial Towns Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna Turley . ) the post - industrial town of the red wall area be die on their foot . our young people be move away , never to return , to the city , to London and to the surround commuter town , for good job , skill and high pay . the good apprenticeship be too few , and we have low - skilled population who be grow old , with high health demand on our NHS and care service . aspiration level have plummet and there be a collective mindset that say people have to move out in order to get on . all too often such town have be ignore by successive government when wealth building or investment initiative have be bring forward , and disregard because they be on the " too difficult to do " list . this Government be the first in over a generation to be rebuild our economy through the development of a strategic plan . this be the end of the free market be allow to run free , with patchy Government intervention and growth ambition reliant more on hope and prayer . the left - behind town in red wall area , such as Bassetlaw , will have their lock - in potential unleashed and will become wealth builder only through a national industrial strategy that align itself to their future . as deputy leader with responsibility for regeneration at Bassetlaw council at the time , I remember the last attempt to develop a strategy , under Prime Minister Theresa May . we hear lot of warm word at all level of government , include mine , but then there be silence — it go nowhere . now be our opportunity to define a strategy that align itself to our national priority and feed into the ambition and vision of local area such as Bassetlaw . the Black Country forge the steel that build Britain . place such as Cradley Heath in Halesowen still have that pride and passion in their town . do my hon . friend agree that the industrial strategy should focus on aerospace , defence and manufacturing so that place like our can be revitalise because of this Labour Government ? I agree with my hon . friend . we have to invest in area like his and mine to rebuild those job and our industry . such area in our constituency must become the engine of the future . in bassetlaw we have just welcome the award of £ 2 . 5 billion for the development of fusion energy in north Nottinghamshire . in addition , £ 30 million have be commit to Doncaster airport to kick - start it as it reopen . the closure of Doncaster airport in November 2022 be devastating for the city and surround area . the commitment from this Government will get the airport reopen , attract business to the area and see the economy grow , mean there will be new job across the region , include in Bassetlaw . my hon . friend tempt I to intervene because she know how passionate and drive I be to see Doncaster - Sheffield airport open , revitalise and ready to take flight in the near future . that will bring new job , prosperity and long - term ambition for the young people who live in the area . do she agree that the Government support to help develop skill in the local area , around aviation , logistic and green technology , be exactly what we need ? I totally agree with my hon . friend . I want young people in my constituency to think about the wide opportunity , include what be happen at Doncaster airport . approximately 800 job be lose , which impact people who live in Bassetlaw , but I be very supportive of what be come forward . rise — do my hon . friend agree that further education be integral to turbocharge the skill revolution that we need ? every area in the country should have strong provision in further education , particularly , as be the case in my constituency , through provider such as West Notts college , rather than solely rely on university ? I very much agree and will refer to that later in my contribution . for too long people have move away to university and never come back . we need good apprenticeship align to our local fe college . they have to be a part of the engine of the future and our industrial strategy have to focus on that as well as where business go in the future . my community in East Cleveland be once home to the ironstone mine and the steelwork that help build this great country , but I often speak to steelworker who say that when they leave school they have a guarantee job for life and this be not the case any more . do my hon . friend agree that there be a role for our combine authority to play not just in create job but in have a skill strategy that guarantee decent , well - pay job for our young people year into the future ? I thank my hon . friend for his contribution . he very much reflect my priority , and we must have a skill strategy that align with an industrial strategy so that our young people know clearly where their future be . my constituency have a proud industrial heritage and be renowned for the rich diversity of its industrial output during the 19th century . we have the world famous Johnnie Walker whisky plant which be link to Kilmarnock for more than 190 year , Saxone , a shoe manufacturing and retail company , Massey Ferguson , producer of tractor and combine harvester across the world , and BMK , a major carpet manufacturer which play a prominent role in Kilmarnock ' s industrial landscape , even produce the red carpet for Queen Elizabeth ' s wedding in 1947 and carpet for the movie " titanic " . do my hon . friend agree that while these industry have , sadly , go , post - industrial town across Ayrshire do have a bright future and that there be potential for exciting development in aerospace , renewable energy , AI and data centre to name just a few sector , drive by a modern industrial strategy to support long - term sustainable growth ? I again agree : the industrial strategy have to impact the whole of Great Britain , not just the red wall area , because if it be to be successful , member must see new opportunity and industry come to their constituency so that we all share in the future . I commend the hon . Lady for secure this debate . I speak to she beforehand and know exactly what she be after , and we all support she in that . the remnant of factory — I think of my old crepe weaver factory in Newtownards and Strangford as one example — be a reminder of the decline of industrial unit in the textile sector in particular , and the impact of that on the local economy . do the hon . Lady agree that great investment in rebuild these vacant space must come ? we welcome the Labour Government ' s commitment to that strategy , and do the hon . Lady also agree that make the change that really matter must come from here at Westminster ? I totally agree . this government be make the change . we be be strategic and we know what our future be . we can not rely on the market as we move forward . it be absolutely essential that we think about grow the economy , ensure that wealth lie in the hand of the people who live in those community so that we can build our life back again . I want to agree with all the intervention that have just be make — that make thing easy . absolutely . [ laughter . ] we be go to have no disagreement whatsoever because what we need be a Government who will deliver the job and skill that have already be identify . while the investment into step — spherical tokamak for energy production — fusion in north Nottinghamshire have the potential in time to unlock new skill , job and opportunity that will completely change the industrial landscape of my area for year to come , my demand of Government be an industrial strategy that encompass and prioritise the leave - behind area . will my hon . friend agree to include post - industrial town in place like Cornwall which use to mine and have be post - industrial for long than many other town in this country ? now , with opportunity in renewable and critical mineral , they could be rich again under this new industrial strategy . I totally agree . it have be too easy to invest in our metropolitan and city area , so area such as ours have miss out time and again . the fact that my hon . friend ' s constituency be in the far corner of England have make it far too difficult for previous government and industry to think about her community and what they need in order to be strong again . I be so delighted that we have a Labour Government who be focus on the same priority that we all share . while the hon . Lady be talk about the south - west of England , I would hate for she to forget Axminster , which still have a flourish carpet maker , but it do not have quite the same level of employment that it do in its heyday . do she agree that Government can help by invest in superfast broadband , give that Axminster be in the 10 % of place in the country with the least superfast broadband ? the development and growth of our infrastructure must include superfast broadband , so that we can all benefit from it . too many area be miss out , particularly remote , rural area . we need a strong economy that include superfast broadband , ai and energy provision to ensure that we be supercharge for the future . the announcement make by the Government yesterday that british railway will use british steel be a welcome example . that commitment must be replicate in every infrastructure project across the country , in our nuclear ambition , roadbuilding , munition , prison and hospital - building project . what step be the Minister take to ensure that the industrial strategy give priority to british company while address our ambitious infrastructure commitment ? the town of my constituency , Dewsbury and Batley , lie at the heart of West Yorkshire ' s heavy woollen district . we have a proud history of textile , and we be the centre for recycle wool textile call shoddy and mungo . today , we be actually the UK ' s capital , if not the european capital , of put people to sleep — that is , make bed . however , there have be very little investment from Government to help the furniture industry in my constituency . do the hon . Member agree that , as well as technological investment , the Government should look to revitalise the workforce and niche industry in all part of our country and help they to expand , grow and overcome the Brexit barrier ? again , I thank the hon . member for his contribution . we all have our localise industry that we be proud of , but we need a government who recognise that and enable local business to thrive and survive . this be about how we invest and encourage new business to invest in our local economy , which be an essential element of the industrial strategy . do my hon . friend agree that a target industrial strategy for post - industrial town and city such as ours will lead to more highly skilled job to lift the ceiling of average earning in our constituency , so that they have real opportunity for secure , good and well - pay job and apprenticeship ? again , I thank my hon . friend for her contribution . we need to build wealth in our local area , and we need to stop young people have to make the horrific choice of whether to move away . by build wealth locally , we be actually able to build good house , we have people spend money in the local economy , and we support the new independent business that come along . it be a circular thing , and we as a Government have to invest in that . whether this Government focus on investment zone , improved infrastructure or high - perform college that turn people out who be work - fit and raring to go , they have the ability to target growth into area where the engine that once power our economy stop run too many year ago . my constituency have the Stockton and Darlington railway , which begin the passenger railway . since the election , after year of Tory dither and delay , we be proud to have have £ 800 million put into a world - class train factory . do my hon . friend agree that , with the right investment by an active Labour Government , the industrial area that power our past can really power our future ? I totally agree with my hon . friend — that be the way in which we supercharge our constituency . it be about recognise their strength and work with the local community , local government and our mp to ensure we get the investment we need . we also have to focus on the fact that previous government have consistently rely on Treasury methodology to determine their priority , apply a cost - benefit analysis framework that always result in the city and huge conurbation score highly , open up wave of funding for infrastructure and investment . it be a formula that be apply across Government , influence a wide range of decision , include where flood alleviation scheme go and where sport provision and support for heritage and the art end up . it be not just red wall area that be impact by that methodology , and I welcome the fact that hon . friend from Scotland and Cornwall be in their place . and Northern Ireland as well . and Northern Ireland , of course . I will never forget the hon . gentleman . it go without say . the Treasury ' s use of that formula be the simple explanation for why we have leave - behind town across the whole of the UK . I value and welcome the fact that the Government have listen , and have resolve to overhaul the Green Book and use a place - base analysis as an integral element of the formula in future . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) for his work with Ministers on this issue . that change be fundamental , because be leave behind mean failure . we have a Government who be only interested in the easy solution , and be willing to see part of the country become no - go area for new industry and new opportunity . I thank my hon . friend for the acknowledgement . the Green Book review have rightly identify issue of capacity and capability when it come to business case development in certain area , and of course the spending review allocate lot of money to area with high capability , such as Manchester and Liverpool . that highlight the opportunity that devolution will eventually bring to place such as Lancashire , which have be leave behind for too long , but do my hon . friend agree that we can not wait ? we need to see proper investment in develop the capacity and capability that Lancashire need to bring forward its own business case now . I totally agree with my hon . friend . this be absolutely urgent , which be why we stand to be mps and why we be champ at the bit for change — it be why we be all in the Chamber tonight . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this debate , and I think the fact that so many member be in the Chamber for an Adjournment debate show the importance of this subject . while she be talk about the immediate output need , can I make my usual plea to member on the Treasury Bench via you , Mr Speaker ? when the industrial strategy — which be so important to all our community — come , it must address the chronic , crippling effect of industrial energy price , which be hurt so many of the manufacture sector we have mention today . whether it be in Bassetlaw , in Stoke - on - Trent or even in Chorley , there will be business that be struggle . I know that my hon . friend agree , but when the Minister address we later , I hope she will be able to confirm that industrial energy price will be deal with in the industrial strategy , to benefit we all . I have hear from all my hon . friend from Stoke - on - Trent , who be currently see the demise of the ceramics industry . that can not go on , and the cause be high energy price . the most recent datum , from 2023 , show that 25 % of manufacture job in Stoke - on - Trent be in ceramic . ceramic — especially advanced ceramic — be critical to strategic industry such as defence , nuclear energy and steel . do my hon . friend agree that the industrial strategy must recognise the foundational industry of ceramic , which be vital for the future not only of Stoke - on - Trent but the country ? I thank my hon . friend for her contribution . I hope that minister be listen , as the product produce in the three constituency of my hon . friend from Stoke - on - Trent be critical for our industrial future . my challenge to Government be to bring forward an industrial strategy that allow the whole nation to grow , but also resource and target the town that be cry out for change . I begin by demand a skill revolution in our post - industrial area . for much of the past century , area such as mine be dominate by key industry . in bassetlaw , we have thousand of man work down the pit while their wife , sister and mother head into the big textile factory . the history of key industry be not exclusive to bassetlaw — there be vital and historic british industry with their root in many red wall area . ceramic , fishing , automotive , steel and shipping all dominate the midland and the north of England . while some still remain , they be struggle , fight an ongoing international race for cheap labour and part , with successive government fail they time and again . in bassetlaw , as the mine close and the textile factory move to country with cheap labour , the employment opportunity shift , with warehousing and logistic spring up on the old pit site . at that time , skill provision , under the auspex of the Manpower Services Commission , develop into a simplistic system . it be literally control by the main employer , who want to mould the workforce into their own need from age 16 . in bassetlaw , it be Tony Wilkinson of Wilko and Richard Budge of Budge Mining who run the system . for a small number , skill training be via the university route , with most never return . the middle ground between the two be a low priority for Government , and the lazy solution have be to import the skill we need . that be the history of the past 14 year , where cheap import skill have be use to meet industry ' s short - term need , methodically sideline local young people and add to soar legal migration . we have the kernel of an alternative , with high - skilled apprenticeship , but they be not yet ingrain across the system or the country . as Chorley , Rossendale and Darwen have have a mention , I feel it be only right that the Member for Blackburn should speak . do the hon . Member agree that we need to invest in our people , in local business and in small business ? our people in Blackburn and the surround area have the ability and the creativity . all they need be a bit of investment , a bit more support and a push . I totally agree with the hon . member . an industrial strategy have to support the sme , because they have to be part of the supply chain . they have to be part of that engine of growth , because they be an integral part of all our community . I want to see they benefit when there be big industrial investment . they be part of that chain , and they can grow with it . rise — the final intervention . on the point of skill , there be a risk with non - mayoral area that we do not get the same level of investment as go into city mayoral area . do my hon . friend agree that it be important that we see that money flow into all our community across the United Kingdom ? again , I totally agree with my hon . friend . I be fortunate , as I have a new mayor , the Mayor of the East Midlands . I can already see the benefit of have a mayoral combine authority . that partnership with local government , the mayor and I be critical for investment . I have a conversation with she on Saturday and talk about my hon . friend ' s area , because area like his will get leave behind if they do not have the opportunity to have a combine authority and mayor . it make an incredible difference , and my ask of Government be to move fast and get that sorted . [ interruption . ] I need to wind up , I be be tell , so I will go to the end of my speech to give the Minister the opportunity to wind up . as the debate be wind up , I just want to give the good people at Hansard an opportunity to record the fact that not a single Conservative or Reform MP be here in the Chamber to listen to this important debate . come on . this debate be far too important to start score party political point at this stage . I will finish by say that time be run out . it be not handout we be ask for , or sympathy ; our demand be strategic investment . my ask of the Minister be give we the tool . be it little Britain or Great Britain ? be it little englander look over their shoulder or Great Britons look out to the future ? I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) for initiate this important debate . my constituency contain both rural community and town with a proud industrial history . member will be familiar with New Lanark , which be famous throughout the world as the place where Robert Owen champion well working condition . he show that productivity do not need to come at the expense of worker ’ right , and we have build on that legacy in this Parliament . far west , Hamilton be a proud coalmining area for 200 year , with textile and heavy industry make the town an economic and industrial force to be reckon with . however , our town be show the neglect of 15 year of the Tories and 18 year of the Scottish National party . the work of the people who build our nation be not respect or reward by either Government , and the impact be there for all of we to see in the board - up shop in our high street . but when it come to demonstrate what our priority be , what a difference a year make ! follow the spending review , the UK Government be provide £ 50 . 9 billion a year for the Scottish Government — the big settlement in the history of devolution — and there be more : there be trade deal , investment zone , city and growth deal , direct investment , and the strategic defence review . my constituent have tell I time and again that they do not understand why they see service be rebuild south of the border but not at home , and sadly I know the answer . bad loan , bad deal , bad investment and bad decision have take money from where it need to be . I see that no SNP Members be in the Chamber this evening , and I be sorry to say that do not surprise I , but it do send a clear message to my constituent . I know what my community be capable of , give the chance , and that be why what we have do in just under a year of government be so important . the work of change have already begin , and we be here to see it through . I have only a few minute in which to speak , but I should be happy to write to member to provide further detail . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) on secure this important debate . the turnout and the contribution from other member demonstrate their strongly hold view and passionate commitment to their constituency , and illustrate the challenge face our post - industrial area , which be deep , structural and long - term . my hon . friend draw attention to regional inequality that have be exacerbate in recent decade . we have a responsibility and a duty to turn that around , and the Government be commit to do so . the devolution agenda be central to that work and be one of the key area on which my Department be lead , devolve power and budget so that local area can shape their future and enable all community to benefit , and ensure that those historic inequity be address . the Government have already give local authority an additional £ 3 . 4 billion in grant funding , and we be also develop a long - term housing strategy . we have commit ourselves to billion of pound of investment in housing , and be invest £ 1 . 5 billion in our plan for neighbourhood . my hon . friend , and other , raise a number of issue relate to the industrial strategy . I know that the Business Secretary will be follow closely the point that have be raise about support for the ceramics industry and broadband and ensure that the industry in these community be harness . member rightly raise the subject of steel , and they will be aware of the work that the Business Secretary have do in that regard . the investment zone be key to economic growth and development , and the industrial strategy be , of course , vital . the last Government make many promise of an industrial strategy , but it do not happen , and we be determined to address that . as we announce last week , the Government have commit a record £ 2 . 5 billion of investment for fusion energy , include support for a prototype fusion energy plant locate in my hon . friend ' s constituency . that project alone will generate more than 10 , 000 job . this Government be commit to renew our economy , tackle regional inequality , support — House adjourn without question put ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 7 ) ) .