Oral Answers to Questions Business and Trade the Secretary of State be ask — Steel industry : South Yorkshire what step he be take to support the steel industry in South Yorkshire . the steel industry have be in decline , and we intend to turn this around . that be why we be develop a steel strategy , invest up to £ 2 . 5 billion and work at pace . the steel sector in South Yorkshire and across the UK have be neglect for too long , and we intend to change that . Stocksbridge Speciality Steels in my constituency be a world - lead plant , with specialist capability to produce clean and strong high - grade steel for our aerospace industry . the plant support hundred of job and have an exceptional on - site skill training centre , with link to local university . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss the future strategic significance of Stocksbridge Speciality Steels and its fundamental importance to our national steel industry ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , and for champion her constituency and its industry . she make a very good point , and I recently meet she to talk about this . this week , I meet Community trade union representative from the steel sector in her area as well . I be always happy to meet again to see what we can do . as the Minister know , it be not just South Yorkshire that be face difficult decision about the steel industry . I thank she for our recent meeting about the future of Scunthorpe . be she able to add anything on when we might expect an announcement ? as she will appreciate , particularly at this time of year , there be grow anxiety among the workforce . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , and for his interest in his constituent and their job in the steel industry . as he say , we have meet to talk about this , and I have nothing new to add today , other than that we continue with our conversation with British Steel . we be work as fast as we can . obviously , it be ultimately up to British Steel to decide what it want to do and take forward , but we stand ready to support and work with it . UK export what step his Department be take to help increase the number of business export good and service . we recently launch Unlock Europe , a new export programme design to help UK business build strong relationship with european customer . last month , in Manchester , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State launch a new pilot scheme , alongside the mayor and his team , that offer business in the north - west more support in sell their product and service overseas . we be determined to do more , and will bring forward further plan in due course . export from our aerospace , defence , security and space sector contribute around £ 40 billion to our economy , but without additional support , many of the small business I speak to in Aldershot and Farnborough be limit in their ability to export . what can minister do to help they , and will the Government consider reinstate the trade show access programme , close down by the Conservatives , to help more small and medium - sized enterprise trade around the world ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that we have to do more to help small business in particular , and business in general , to export more overseas . that be one of the key , but often understate , way in which we can deliver growth for this country . as part of our work on a new trade strategy and a small business strategy , we be look at further proposal to help our business export more . the italian press have be report that the global combat air programme consortium , involve the UK , Italy and Japan , might be extend to include Saudi Arabia . can the Minister confirm this press report ? how would that affect any future decision to suspend licence to export arm to Saudi Arabia , as the Government decide to in 2019 ? we be look at work with other gcap partner . I be in Italy last month to discuss the further potential of GCAP , and other work that we can do with the Italians in this space , but that will not affect the issue about which the hon . Gentleman be specifically concerned . business Confidence what step he be take to help improve business confidence . the Government be force to make difficult choice in the Budget , but the fundamental of do business in the UK remain strong . the Government ' s agenda of create an industrial strategy , get people back to work , reform our planning system , rebuild our relationship with the EU , pension reform and more , be entirely focus on improve the long - term business environment across the UK . in the aftermath of the Budget , I speak with many business leader in my constituency of Solihull West and Shirley . invariably , they tell I that they be pause recruitment and freeze their growth plan as a direct consequence of the decision make around taxation and the Employment Rights Bill . what do the Secretary of State say to those business in my constituency that no long have confidence in the Government and feel abandon by their policy ? I say that the Budget be seven week ago , so if the Conservative party , which do not tell we how it would pay for the promise it make when it be in government , now have a plan to pay for those promise , I would welcome receive it in writing , or hear it here at oral question or in a statement . the raw reality be that the conservative party make promise that it have no intention of keeping . we be not go to do that ; we will fix the foundation and do what we say . the reason this Government will succeed on growth and business investment in a way that the previous Government do not have to do with the fundamental : the return to political stability in the UK ; an openness to the rest of the world , include the EU — a difficult subject for Conservative Members , I know — which be still our major trading partner ; and the willingness of this government to use their mandate to improve the business and investor environment . those fundamental mean that the future of the UK be very promising . steel manufacturing be a vital west midland industry , but business confidence be be dent by retrospective charging of steel safeguarding duty by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . company that be affect in my constituency and elsewhere feel that such duty be unfairly and wrongly impose on they during the chaotic Brexit transition period . they try to work with the last government , but get nowhere . give the importance of the steel sector to british industry , will the Minister work with the Treasury to resolve the issue , and ensure that these vital business be protect from hefty bill that they should never have be send in the first place ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important matter . give the sum of money involve , I can understand why that be a substantial issue for business in her constituency . it relate to the duty that be charge at a time of significant political uncertainty . this be a Treasury issue relate to taxation , but I promise we will get she the meeting she need , and work with she to ensure that she get the answer she request for her constituent . I call the shadow Minister . there be no clear pointer on business confidence than the Bank of England ' s recent survey on employer ' response to the Budget . some 59 % expect low profit margin ; 54 % expect to raise price ; 54 % expect low employment ; and 38 % expect to pay low wage than they otherwise would have . now City AM report that Labour have carelessly lose all its business backer . will the Secretary of State show any contrition , admit that business confidence be through the floor , and start stand up for business , rather than the Treasury ? well , what can I say ? be it the conservative party that increase corporation tax from 19 % to 25 % in one Budget , and that crash business investment and confidence because of the way it mishandle Brexit , fail to prepare for either outcome of a yes / no referendum ? and which opposition Front Benchers play a role in the mini - Budget ? frankly , it be all of they . with respect to the hon . Gentleman , I will not take advice from he . since the Budget , I have hear repeatedly from conservative colleague that they want to lower taxis and increase spending , even though they can not account for the promise that they make when in government . that be not credible unless they engage with reality , as this Government be do . whether it be the response to the Chancellor ' s speech at Mansion House or finally sort out Marks & Spencer this week , this Government be get on with the job and look to the future . Sorry seem to be the hard word . [ interruption . ] I be talk about the Government ' s Budget . further proof of how low business confidence be get under this Government be give in evidence to the Employment Rights Bill Committee . Jane Gratton of the British Chamber of Commerce predict " a reduced hire appetite be this legislation to come in , and that " their member " would be less likely to recruit new employee due to the risk and difficulty , particularly under the day one right " . – – [ Official Report , Employment Rights Public Bill Committee , 26 November 2024 ; c . 8 , q2 . ] if business confidence be low , employment go down . we already know that every Labour Government leave unemployment high than when they take office , but be it not a bit extreme for this Labour Government to legislate for that outcome ? if the hon . Gentleman google that statistic , he will find that it be not actually true , but I appreciate that it be demand be in opposition , and that there may not always be the capacity and resource require . as we hear on the excellent second reading of that legislation , the vast majority of employer in the UK already operate to a high standard than the level to which the floor be be raise in the Employment Rights Bill . I do not in any way pull back from say that some of the most vulnerable , insecure and low pay member of our society will benefit from the Bill ; that be exactly what it be about . those people may have give up on politic or think that the mainstream political system will not deliver for they . I reject the claim that certain industry require a supply of labour from job that do not give people the security and dignity that they need . this be a set of proportionate , reasonable reform that will make a difference — order . I have a list of speaker here . I call Munira Wilson . Paid Employment Leave : Kinship Carers if he will make an assessment with the Secretary of State for Education of the potential merit of introduce a right to pay employment leave for kinship carer . we recognise the vital role that kinship carer play in care for vulnerable child , and the challenge that many face in balance that care with employment . we recently announce the large ever investment in support for kinship carer : £ 40 million to trial a kinship allowance in up to 10 local authority . we will also review the parental leave system to ensure that it well support all work family , and work be already under way to plan for that delivery . I be sure the Minister will agree that kinship carer be unsung hero , who often step up at a moment ' s notice to look after a child whose parent can not , but four in 10 be force to give up work to do so , which mean they often struggle to pay the bill or put food on the table . will the Minister look to right that wrong through the Employment Rights Bill , and introduce a right to pay employment leave for kinship carer , give the saving to the public purse and the well outcome for child that arise from kinship care ? I meet a kinship carer in my constituency recently who tell I about the challenge the hon . Lady have articulate . the carer say that the most important thing to she be get respite care — a point that we can all recognise . we be look at how the trial pan out . I have speak in detail to my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) about the proposal come forward , but we think it be good to see how the trial work , and to look at the wide review of the parental leave system . hospitality business what step he be take to support the hospitality sector . what step he be take to support the hospitality sector . hospitality business be at the heart of our community and be vital for economic growth . the Government be create a fairer business rate system , reduce alcohol duty on qualify draught product and reform the apprenticeship levy to support business and boost opportunity . we be address strategic issue for the hospitality sector relate to high - street regeneration , skill , sustainability and productivity , and that work will be support by the publication of the small business strategy Command Paper next year . in Reigate , Redhill , Banstead and our village , we have many amazing pub that contribute hugely to the economy , such as the Garibaldi community pub in Redhill . for those business to thrive , reform of the unfair business rate system by 2026 be critical . will the Minister commit to the propose 20p reduction to the small business rate multiplier , which be the absolute minimum reduction need for the long - term sustainability of the pub sector ? the hon . Lady will know that the Chancellor of the Exchequer commit in the recent Budget to a series of reform to business rate , include permanently low business rate for hospitality business from 2026 - 27 . I welcome the hon . Lady ' s support for that measure . ukhospitality have estimate that the Budget measure will increase the cost of employ one employee by £ 2 , 500 . shop , pub and restaurant across my constituency have say that that will lead to high price or few job . will the Minister at least consider delay the implementation of the national insurance contribution increase to 2026 - 27 , when the plan realignment of business rate be due to come in ? I be sure that the right hon . Gentleman will have notice that in the Budget , the Chancellor more than double the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 . that will mean that more than a million small business , many of they hospitality business , will see no increase in their national insurance liability next year . Free Trade deal : farmer what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of free trade deal on farmer . our approach to trade deal consider the impact on and opportunity for the agricultural sector , along with other sector of the economy , and , of course , our growth mission . the Government will publish impact assessment to aid the ratification process for new free trade agreement . I work with farmer for many year as a veterinary surgeon , and now I meet they regularly as an MP , so I be aware that farmer in Hampshire and the rest of the country be hugely disappoint when the previous Conservative Government sign trade deal that undermine our high animal welfare standard . what step be the Minister take to ensure that after future trade deal , british farmer will not have to compete with product produce to low animal welfare standard — for example , battery hen , or product that involve the indiscriminate use of antibiotic , which be also a public health issue ? it be not only vet and farmer who be proud of our high animal welfare standard , but the british public , so will the Minister confirm that he do not want to compromise on those standard ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for bring his considerable expertise in veterinary science to the Chamber today . we will not compromise on animal welfare standard as we take forward our programme of free trade agreement . although we might well have approach the negotiation that the previous Government undertake in a different manner , reopen they would certainly create uncertainty , which we genuinely believe would hurt UK business . we be not see australian or New Zealand beef and lamb flood the UK market , and we will continue to monitor trade flow under both those free trade agreement . he make a very fair and important point about the need to maintain welfare standard . small and medium - sized business what step his Department be take to support small and medium - sized business . what step his Department be take to support small business . small business be the beat heart of our high street and community , and be essential to our economic success . that be why , on Small Business Saturday , I announce the business growth service , which will ensure that business across the UK get quick and easy support and advice from Government . further announcement include the disability finance code for entrepreneurship to improve access to capital and tackle inequality for disabled entrepreneur . a new fair payment code be launch by the Office of the Small Business Commissioner to help address late payment . next year , as my hon . friend have say , the small business strategy will be publish to create thrive high street , easy access to finance , open overseas and domestic market and enhance business capability . small and medium - sized business come in many form , from microbusinesse to community interest company and co - operative . often , co - operative and mutual business model be overlook . Norwich have a proud history of co - operative . will the Secretary of State reassure I that co - operative and mutual business model will be properly include in this Government ' s much - need push to support small and medium - sized business ? I very much welcome my hon . friend ' s question . my area on the eastern side of Greater Manchester have , like hers , a huge history of co - operative and mutual . the diversity in business model that they bring be a huge strength ; they bring different thing to the market and different way of do business . the resilience in co - operative model be particularly attractive . I can assure she that they form part of the Government ' s wide strategy . our ambition be to double mutual ' size in the economy . the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) , the small business Minister , be lead on that work , and I would love my hon . friend and business from her area to be involve in it . last week , I have the pleasure of visit the winner of my first Small Business Saturday award in Southampton Itchen . they be Riann Care , the Bunker , Miss Ellie ' s Caf é and Julie ' s Dance Studio . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate they on their role in ensure a thriving local economy ? what assurance he can offer they that this Government have the back of small business ? I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend for his question . I certainly join he in congratulate those local business on their work and , indeed , all member of Parliament on the work that they do on their constituency day to champion and support local business . the Government ' s agenda include long - term reform of business rate to create permanently low business rate for retail , hospitality and leisure . the launch of high - street rental auction , get rid of derelict property in town centre , be also hugely exciting . the business growth service be predominantly about recognise that although the Government do a lot , business can often find it hard to access exactly what they need . I have look around the world — to the US and its Small Business Administration , and to Singapore and its Enterprise Singapore , for example — to discover the good model . that be what we will take forward in 2025 , and I find it a hugely exciting agenda . last Saturday be indeed Small Business Saturday . it be an opportunity for we to celebrate and support the many small business in our constituency . however , too many of they be really worried about the increase in national insurance contribution — the £ 25 billion job tax — and there be simply no easy answer for they . they can not just put up their price , so they be look at staffing level . why be the Government so against aspiration , and how do they think they will improve productivity and deliver growth in the economy ? conservative Members know what they leave behind , and I have not hear any of they offer an alternative . the specific answer to the right hon . member ' s question be that employment allowance be double in the Budget and the threshold be take off . that be why 1 million , mainly small , business be pay less or the same in national insurance contribution as they be before the Budget . she should tell the House how the conservative party would pay for the infected blood scandal — the victim of which we be all commit to compensate — Post Office compensation , support for the steel industry , and the advanced manufacturing plan that we inherit , because none of that be in our departmental budget . we be fix the foundation with long - term public investment and an agenda base on high business investment and well , strong economic growth in every part of the UK . the Government have raise national insurance charge on employer and introduce a family farm and a family business tax . the Employment Rights Bill will raise business cost by £ 5 billion , predominantly for small business . as a result of those change , do the Secretary of State believe that sme will employer more or few people ? I have absolutely no doubt that the Government ' s agenda be one for employment , business investment and growth . some of the thing that this country need the most could only have be deliver by a change of Government . I simply do not believe that the conservative party be capable of reform the planning system or have a long - term industrial strategy , fix our relationship with the European Union , and all the rest of it . yes , there have be challenge , but the Conservatives know what they leave behind . they know what they be do . there be a reason the Conservative party have no spending plan for the next financial year . we have have to confront that reality , but we can not have the kind of success that this country need unless we be willing to fix the foundation and focus on the long term . the Chancellor do that in the Budget , and the agenda of the Department for Business and Trade be extremely attractive for the future . I call the shadow Minister . some of the most successful small and medium - sized business , which truly think long term , be own by family , so why do the Secretary of State think that it will help his long - term growth mission for the Government to start tax those business when they get pass on to the next generation ? with respect , I hear a lot of call from the Conservatives to cut taxis and increase spending , but still no account of how they would do that . I appreciate that sometimes the initial transfer into opposition can feel exhilarating , but there be a responsibility that come with it . I would like to see an account from the conservative of how they would pay for it . for all tax change across the board , we can still say with real confidence that the UK have a competitive tax system — benchmark our corporation tax , and the allowance on it , our capital gain taxis and , in this case , our inheritance taxis . the mistake that the Conservatives make be that they forget that the adjustment to specific relief for business and agricultural property be on top of the exist inheritance tax threshold . frankly , a little less scaremongere from the opposition and a bit of focus on what be really at stake would be welcome . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . small business be at the heart of our local community . firm such as Carbon ThreeSixty in my constituency be cut - edge manufacturer of carbon fibre product . however , its growth as a small business be seriously affect by its ability to attract and retain quality staff , predominantly because of the poor public transport and completely non - existent cycle route . these issue cut right across Departments . I would therefore be grateful if the Secretary of State could confirm what discussion he have have with ministerial colleague in other Departments about how rural transport infrastructure would greatly support small and medium - sized business . I welcome the hon . member ' s question . she be right that some of the issue that most affect business in our constituency often sit in other Departments . the role of my Department be to focus on and champion those issue across all of Government , whether they sit neatly in the Department or not . she correctly highlight the incredible and important role that rural business play , and their social as well as economic benefit . her point about transport be well make . one of the big change in the Budget be the ability to focus on long - term investment , which be recognise by the Office for Budget Responsibility in its assessment that the productive potential of the UK will grow significantly over the next decade because of that increase focus — investment , investment , investment . transport be a great element of that , whether in my constituency or in hers . I assure she that the need that she articulate be consider at the high level of Government . Chancellor ' s Mansion House Speech : funding plan what step his Department be take to support the delivery of the funding plan outline in the Chancellor of the Exchequer ' s Mansion House speech . what step his Department be take to support the delivery of the funding plan outline in the Chancellor of the Exchequer ' s Mansion House speech . growth be the Government ' s no . 1 mission and , in her Mansion House speech , the Chancellor announce a package of reform to drive growth and investment across the UK . I have lose count of the number of time I have have conversation with business where they talk about how our appetite for risk be not in the right place , and we be look to reform that . here in DBT , we be drive change through our new industrial strategy work across Departments , which we will publish in the spring . high - growth company across Buckingham and Bletchley rely on foreign direct investment for their growth and innovation . will the Minister set out the step her Department and the Minister for Investment be take to ensure that the Office for Investment can attract more foreign private investment to help the high - potential industry in which Britain excel ? we have an expand Office for Investment , which bring together the Department for Business and Trade , no . 10 and the Treasury . our Investment Minister be work at pace travel around the world to bring in investment . I meet she and the Office for Investment this week , and we be in constant dialogue about how we can bring more foreign direct investment into the country , build on the £ 63 billion announce at the investment summit , and how we can kick - start the economy after 14 year of failure . the Chancellor of the Exchequer mention growth over 40 time in her superb Mansion House speech . York , Leeds and beyond will benefit from that . how will my hon . friend ensure that the industrial strategy deliver for financial service so that we can achieve the growth this country desperately need ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the UK ' s world - lead financial service sector . through the Treasury , we be develop a 10 - year financial service strategy and , of course , financial service be one of the pillar of our industry strategy , which we will publish in the spring . we can not take the UK ' s status as a global financial centre for grant . in a highly competitive world , we need to earn that status and work to keep it , and that be what we intend to do . co - operative what step his Department be take to help increase the size of the co - operative sector . the Government be commit to double the size of the mutual and co - op sector . the creation of great British Energy will help drive a significant expansion in the number of energy co - operative , while work to modernise co - op , credit union and mutual law to drive expansion be recently announce by Treasury colleague . we will work particularly closely with the recently establish mutual and co - operative business council on this agenda . we will bring forward further proposal in due course . co - operative business can be the life - blood of our town and community . in my constituency , I have be work with stakeholder and interested party to bring about a community co - operative bookshop , follow the closure of independent bookshop in Southport in recent year due to the cost of living . may I take this opportunity to encourage new expression of interest in the bookshop , and to ask the Minister to confirm what more support the Government can provide for our co - operative sector , so that town like mine can see a thriving high street build around our community ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to underline the positive community impact that co - operative , mutual business and social enterprise can have not only on our high street , but in our community more generally . we recently announce a significant increase in the capital available to the British Business Bank , and that have enable we to give £ 150 million of additional support to community bank , or community development finance institution , as they be officially know . that will help drive more lending to community business , potentially include the one he set out , but if there be anything I can do to support the initiative , I would be happy to meet he to discuss it . business : Northern Ireland what step he be take to support business in Northern Ireland . business in Northern Ireland , like business across the UK , be cry out for stability , open trade and an environment in which we can break down barrier to growth and investment , and that be what the Government be work across the board to deliver . my Department have a team in Belfast to help stay close to business in Northern Ireland and to understand what they need . of course , we also work closely with Invest Northern Ireland , the Department for the Economy and other key partner . I have speak with Northern Ireland business during my short time in office , and I be encourage by their passion and resilience . Northern Ireland business , large and small , receive just 0 . 6 % of what the Government spend with UK defence company between 2018 and 2023 , compare with 25 % in the south - east of England . as my Committee hear when we visit Northern Ireland last week , Spirit AeroSystems , which work on high - value defence and other aerospace contract , face an uncertain future , as half of its 3 , 600 - strong workforce in Belfast wait to find out whether their job be safe follow Boeing ' s buy - out of the company and the subsequent takeover by Airbus of only 50 % of the work at its site in the city . we all know what happen to supply chain , community and individual in these circumstance , so what discussion be minister have with Cabinet colleague , with Airbus , and with other interested party to safeguard those job at Spirit now and to increase Government spend with Northern Ireland defence company in the future ? [ interruption . ] thank you , Mr Speaker . I know it ' s Christmas , but come on . [ laughter . ] we love a long question , and it be a good one . my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this issue , one that we be all of course concern about . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State meet the global chief executive officer of Airbus last week , and I have meet representative of Airbus , Boeing and Spirit AeroSystems and talk about this issue . we care about those job and about the future of our defence industry in the UK — it be incredibly important to we for many reason — so we be do what we can to make sure there be a good outcome . this will be a good example of a short question . I call Jim Shannon . challenge already ! in the short time that the Minister have be in her role , she have show quite clearly that she have a deep interest in Northern Ireland . defence , light engineering and cyber - security be all vital to job and the economy in Northern Ireland , but what assessment have be make of the sustainability and efficiency of Northern Ireland ' s agrifood sector , and will the Minister commit to promote the productivity of that industry across the United Kingdom and , indeed , across the world ? that be as short as I can make it , Mr Speaker . More ! the agrifood sector be incredibly important — I meet representative of the sector , and I will do all I can . as always , I be very keen to talk to the hon . gentleman about what more we as a Government can do to support the sector . high Streets : Government Support what step his Department be take to support high street . what step he be take to support high street business . what step his Department be take to support high street . what step his Department be take to support high street . work across government with mayor , local authority and — crucially — local community , we be begin to tackle antisocial behaviour and crime , reform business rate , work with the banking industry to roll out 350 banking hub , stamp out late payment , empower community to make the most of vacant property , strengthen the post office network and reform the apprenticeship levy . I welcome the new power delegate to local authority , enable they to tackle the blight of empty shop front and rejuvenate our local high street . this will be particularly welcome in East Thanet , where the Ramsgate empty shop action group have be a powerful advocate for address this issue . we have a 24 % vacancy rate on Ramsgate high street , so what step be the Government take to support and encourage local business and community project to take over those vacant property ? I commend my hon . friend on her work with the Ramsgate empty shop action group . her experience on her high street be sadly echo up and down the country — under the conservative party , vacancy rate on our high street shoot up . high street rental auction , which be the new power that my hon . friend allude to , will help local council to bring vacant unit back into use , work with local community . that will hopefully help to drive co - operation between landlord and council and make town centre tenancy more accessible and affordable . we be encourage local authority to take advantage of those power . as I suspect my hon . friend already know , colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government be look to do further work in this space . I call Sir Oliver Dowden . question 14 , Mr Speaker . no , just ask the question . you ' re group . I do not realise you have group they , Mr Speaker . forgive I — a schoolboy error . what advice would the Minister give struggle business in my constituency who be try to work out how to absorb labour ' s national insurance hike ? would he advise they to increase their price , to squeeze wage or to cut investment , and can he explain to those business how that fit with the Government ' s promise to increase growth ? I think the good advice I could give to business in the right hon . member ' s constituency be to never vote Conservative again . his and his party ' s idea of good economic in Government seem to be to create a huge fiscal hole and leave it to the next Administration to fix it . we be work at pace to try to tackle the difficult economic inheritance that he and his colleague in Government help to create . measure such as the industrial strategy and the decision we have take in the Budget — albeit some be difficult — will help to bring back economic stability to this country . in the long run , that will help business in his constituency and , indeed , in constituency up and down the country . on Small Business Saturday recently , I have the pleasure of visit Derby ' s small business of various type , which be the beat heart of our city . however , as our plan city centre regeneration project recognise , empty shop on our high street do not reflect the high - perform , high - technology economy that we be so proud to have in Derby . build on the new community right to buy , what more can the Department do to ensure that community group receive the correct business advice and support to use this new right and to breathe new life and vibrancy into our high street ? I commend my hon . friend not only for his work recently on Small Business Saturday , but as the leader of Derby council in drive the town centre regeneration work that he mention . we be determined to establish a small business growth service to provide well support and information to small business so that entrepreneur in this country can take advantage of new power to set up small business on the high street , perhaps capitalise on the high - tech , high - growth sector of the economy to which Derby have access , and in that way make sure that we see benefit from the industrial strategy not just for big business , but for small business . my hon . friend will know from his visit to Gateshead this week some of the fantastic small business we have on our high street , but also some of the incredible challenge face by so many high street and town centre . with that in mind , will he tell we what the Government be do on access to finance for small business ? despite the considerable cold , I very much enjoy my recent visit to Gateshead town centre , and I be impress by the dynamism of the business that he and I meet at his instigation in the railway quarter . one of the thing we be determined to do be to increase access to finance for small business up and down the country . that be why we have provide over £ 1 billion across this year and next year for the British Business Bank , particularly to drive access to finance for small business such as the one to which he introduce I . I call the shadow Minister . one of the ingredient for a successful high street be have a post office in the mix . the Government have inherit a network of 11 , 500 post office , and that number have be stable since 2010 . will the Minister commit to support high street by maintain the scale of the post office network in this Parliament ? yes , we be determined to maintain and , indeed , strengthen the post office network . I suspect that the hon . Member will recognise that we inherit a Post Office with huge problem , which we be work with the new leadership of the Post Office to begin to tackle . we be look at what new commercial opportunity there may be for the Post Office , and banking appear to be the most significant one . we be also work with the Post Office to identify some of its infrastructure problem , not least in develop a replacement for the Horizon scheme . Parental Leave take - up what assessment he have make of the adequacy of level of take up of parental leave . the parental right survey 2019 find that 89 % of employee mother take maternity leave and 70 % of employee father take paternity leave , but take - up of share parental leave be much low . in fact , it be disappointingly low , which be why we be committed to a review of the parental leave system . work be under way to deliver on that , and I will provide an update in due course . I agree with the Minister : it be very disappointing . for many parent , current maternity pay be too low , and the leave system be not flexible enough . a recent report by the BBC say that almost half of new father be unaware of what be available to they . the system be skewed , and the take - up be low among low earn family . that be particularly important — this be point out to I by a constituent in Edinburgh West — for those with multiple birth who need not only more time but more financial support during maternity leave . do the Minister agree that maternity pay level need to be increase , and that the flexibility of the scheme need to be improve , as do public awareness ? the hon . Member make a number of point , which I be sure we will consider as part of the review we be undertake . the Employment Rights Bill have a number of important measure to support work family , bring 1 . 5 million parent into scope for parental leave and another 32 , 000 into scope for paternity leave . we be keen to build on that and we want to support family who be in work . Creative Industries what recent estimate he have make of the contribution of creative industry to the economy . the creative industry be a huge force for good in our country . they be responsible for 2 . 4 million job last year , and more than £ 124 billion for our gdp in 2022 . they be one of eight growth sector in our industrial strategy . we be work closely with the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , and across Government , to identify what more we can do to draw out even more of the potential growth that Britain ' s creative business can offer . as we all settle down for Christmas , we will be watch " Mission : impossible " , " James Bond " , " Ironclad " , and perhaps even " call the Midwife " , which be all film in Medway — [ interruption . ] and also " the Great Escape " , which be not film in Medway , unfortunately . how can we make " Mission : impossible " possible across our country when it come to new film ? I can not follow the impressive nature of that question , but I can tell my hon . friend that in the Budget my right hon . friend the Chancellor confirm a new independent film tax credit , which will help to enable the success that he have allude to in his constituency and the surround area to be spread , potentially , across the country . that will allow more business to set up and generate growth and wealth for our country . Post Office closure what assessment he have make of the potential impact of Post Office closure on high street . no decision have be take on the future of any directly manage branch , include in Chester - le - Street in my hon . friend ' s constituency . the Post Office continue to work with local community , and other , to consider how good to meet the need for post office service in a local area . the Government set minimum access criterion to ensure that 99 % of the UK population live within 3 mile of a post office , and those Government - set access criterion ensure that , regardless of change , service remain within reach of all citizen . the post office in Chester - le - Street have be at the heart of the community in North Durham since 1936 , and offer vital service to my constituent . do the Minister agree that keep those service accessible be vital to keep footfall on our high street and encourage other business to locate themselves there ? I recognise the significance of the post office in my hon . friend ' s constituency , as indeed I recognise the significance of post office in my constituency and across the UK . it be important to maintain access to post office service as they play a crucial role in the high street . that be why we be determined to work with the Post Office to strengthen the network , as I allude to early . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . it have be a hugely significant six month for the Department for Business and Trade . after our record - break international investment summit and our industrial strategy Green Paper publication , my Department have be engage with business big and small to drive growth . just this week we have help to land a £ 500 million train - building deal with Hitachi , secure hundred of job in the north - east — another promise fulfil from the election campaign . for small business we be reform business rate to breathe new life into our high street , while launch a new fair payment code , tackle late payment to sme , and support new high street rental auction to improve town centre . as we have hear , our brand new business growth service will streamline SME support on everything from finance to export . we be also tackle the challenge that we inherit , negotiate a well deal for Tata Steel employee in Port Talbot , while progress a UK - wide steel strategy . our Horizon conviction redress scheme show that we be right the wrong of the past for victim of the Post Office scandal . I look forward to work with all hon . member in the new year , deliver on our plan for change , go for growth , and realise a decade of national renewal . in addition , Mr Speaker , I would like to wish you , all hon . member , and business across the UK a very merry Christmas . thank you , very kind . my constituent still mourn the loss of our M & S outlet in 2015 , but we be delighted that Superbowl UK have just open in Aldershot . these anchor retail and leisure tenant be so vital for our town centre , so what can the Government do to assist community such as mine to ensure that we can encourage business to be the cornerstone and footfall driver of our town centre ? I very much agree and welcome the question from my hon . friend . I certainly recognise that high street be go through a transition from be primarily retail centre to now have much more of a mix of retail , hospitality and leisure , and I be delighted to hear about Superbowl ' s investment in Aldershot . I be not nostalgic for a town centre or a high street that have pass ; it be about how we do that transition into the future . there be great practice around the country , whether in Aldershot or in Walthamstow , where I be recently , and the Government ' s agenda be commit to deliver that . I remind the Secretary of State that these be topical question , and contribution should be short . I come to the shadow Secretary of State for a good example . one of the great british innovation be the gift of free trade , lift billion out of poverty abroad and increase prosperity at home . thank to the Conservatives , this week the UK proudly join the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership , a bloc that include some of the world ' s fast - grow economy , as well as major trading partner and investor , such as Japan and Canada . with the Government have precious little else to show on growth so far , will the Secretary of State update the House on when he expect to conclude free trade deal with the Gulf , with India and with the US ? at least we have some thing we can agree on there , which be a nice start to the Christmas period . I agree that the UK have always be and must be a champion of free trade in a world where trade issue will be politically significant in 2025 . we can work together on that future . we believe that we have progress the Gulf Co - operation Council trade deal significantly . the shadow Secretary of State will know that there be some problem between the previous Government and some country in the GCC , particularly the UAE , where the relationship have unfortunately get into a difficult place . we have repair that and the talk be go well . it be always a mistake to put a deadline on those , because it can limit our negotiating potential . when it come to the US , we will see what happen with the President - elect , but I be look forward to negotiation and discussion about that . come on , Secretary of State . the Secretary of State can count on our support to bring those deal forward . it pain I to say it , but as we have hear today , business confidence be at an all - time low , bar the pandemic . hire be collapse and company be flee . labour have talk growth , but it have deliver decline . the one game changer now would be a US trade deal . will the Secretary of State urge the Prime Minister to stop obsess about go backwards into the EU and agree with I at this Christmas time that the good gift for british business would be for the Prime Minister to get on a plane to Washington and talk trade with President Trump ? I be afraid that the shadow Secretary of State ' s analysis be too simplistic . the US be a major trade partner and always will be , but he will know that so be the European Union and another area be our trade with China . the future for the UK be be position to get the maximum benefit from all those key market . the kind of agreement that he put forward would have major ramification for british agriculture in particular , and he know the issue associate with that . we can not consider one of those trade negotiation without consider the impact on all those key trading relationship . I ask he to consider the issue in a more holistic and complete way . far to the successful international investment summit that my right hon . friend mention early , which secure £ 63 billion - worth of investment for the UK , the First Minister of Wales , Eluned Morgan , have recently announce that Wales will hold its own major investment summit next year . do my right hon . friend agree that this demonstrate the power of two Labour Governments work together in partnership to deliver economic growth for the community we represent ? I might be bias , but I think that the international investment summit that we hold be the good day of this year . that be not just because of the investment and the real tangible job that come from it , but because of the clear , simple message that we could put out there : stability , openness and improve the investment environment . I be delighted to hear the news from Wales . not only will we support that , but I appreciate the strong working relationship we have on such issue as Port Talbot and get a well deal for that community and the workforce . we have work hand in glove with the Welsh Labour Government , and it strengthen the thing we be able to do together . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . tomorrow — on Friday the 13th — the EU ' s general product safety regulation come into effect . business be tell I that the additional cost will mean that they can no long sell to the EU and to Northern Ireland . what step be the Department take to ensure that small business be support as the regulation come into effect ? as the hon . Lady rightly point out , the regulation come into force tomorrow . actually , it cover thing that most business be do already , but we have provide guidance for business , include online marketplace , on how the regulation will apply in Northern Ireland . we will continue to engage with business and online marketplace to ensure that we be support they in deal with this new regulation . I declare an interest as an officer of the all - party parliamentary group on critical mineral . although Cornwall sit on some of the rich deposit of critical mineral in the world , include tin and lithium in my constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle , there be significant geological reserve right across the United Kingdom , include in the north of England , Northern Ireland and the land of our celtic cousin in Wales and Scotland . will the Minister confirm that domestic critical mineral production and processing will form a key part of the Government ' s industrial strategy ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s question , and I welcome the time we spend together at South Crofty tin mine , which be also one of my favourite visit of the year . this be a hugely exciting area , and the opportunity for his area be particularly exciting . what we need be an open , transparent trading system where these product will have the certainty of access to market , which will unlock the ability to use those deposit to our and our ally ' mutual interest . farmer in my constituency maintain the high animal welfare standard . they want reassurance that those will not be undercut by any future UK - US trade deal as they be by some of the deal do by the previous Government . will the Minister assure I that the mandate and the detail of a trade deal will come to the House before the Government sign it , as many member on the Government Front Bench agree when they be in opposition ? if not , why not ? there be an establish process in take forward the Government ' s discussion in relation to the mandate . on animal welfare standard , the Secretary of State have already allude to how there be clearly considerable divergence during the previous attempt to conclude a free trade agreement with the United States . I assure the House that we as a new Government continue to take issue of animal welfare extremely seriously . in Norwich , we have many amazing business such as the Norwich Glass Company , Caf é 193 and Great Eastern Model Railways that I visit recently . one of the challenge that they , the Norfolk chamber of commerce and the Federation of Small Businesses have raise be attract skilled staff . will the Secretary of State set out how the Government ' s skill plan will support such business to attract the staff they need ? I recognise what my hon . friend be say in her question , which be that skill will be one of the big , if not the big issue for business go forward . of course , that sit in the Department for Education and we work closely with colleague on that . we have the creation of Skills England and the reform to the apprenticeship levy to create the growth and skill levy . indeed , I think that my ceo call next week — I do those regularly — will be with the Secretary of State for education , where we will discuss this problem . business from her constituency would be welcome to join that . I be sure that the Secretary of State agree that create high - value job in science and technology be important . in local business , our local plan give we the opportunity to build a science and technology park deliver over 5 , 000 high - value job , but we can not proceed until the Department for Transport release fund for local highway improvement . will the Secretary of State press the Secretary of State for Transport to take action so that work can progress and we can deliver job and growth in Mid Sussex ? the hon . member ' s question be perhaps more for the Secretary of State for Transport , but she skilfully put that to I . I assure she that I will work with the Secretary of State for Transport to do that . how we assemble investment site be a huge issue , and how we can work well across Government with local partner be also a key issue for we . last week , research publish by Sage show that 84 % of small business in the north - east plan to increase their investment in technology next year . as the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee launch its inquiry into innovation , growth and the region , how will the Business Secretary ensure that the industrial strategy boost adoption of technology — particularly british - develop technology — to boost growth across all our region ? my hon . friend will be aware that the Chancellor of the Exchequer recently announce £ 20 . 4 billion in investment for research and development for the next year , which will help to drive even more of the type of technological investment that she rightly champion . we be also work with small business to encourage they to adopt more digital technology through the digital adoption taskforce . business in Bognor Regis and Littlehampton be at the sharp end of the Bank of England ' s business confidence survey . unlike the Chancellor and the Secretary of State , they know that her Budget and the Employment Rights Bill be a recipe for high price , high inflation , high interest rate and high unemployment . be that the growth that the Secretary of State have in mind ? we have have seven or eight of the same question from the Opposition Benches , and not a single answer to how they would pay for the promise that they make . we be get on with fix the foundation , look to the future and improve the business environment across the board . that be why business in the hon . Lady ' s area and mine should look to 2025 with real confidence . I declare an interest as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on british bus . the Secretary of State will be aware of the consultation on 160 job at Alexander Dennis in my constituency . in September , it cite an increasingly unlevel play field over a number of year for domestic bus manufacturer . that show the requirement for a clear industrial strategy . what assurance can the Minister give I , as part of implement the industrial strategy , that the Labour Government be work to level the play field for domestic manufacturer ? I recognise the issue and I welcome my hon . friend ' s raise it at the annual dinner of the Society for Motor Manufacturers and Traders . it matter to this government that we make these product in the UK . there have be specific procurement issue , mainly with local area . I promise he the meeting that he need to take that forward , but I assure he that the industrial strategy will cover this issue . my constituent Kirsty be self - employ and be look to adopt a child , but she do not qualify for adoption leave or adoption pay and , because she be not have her child biologically , she do not qualify for maternity allowance . would the Government support change that , whether through the Employment Rights Bill or otherwise , so that brilliant future parent be not put off from adopt because they can not afford it ? that be an interesting question . there be a great interplay with right for self - employ people . we be commit to a review on that in due course , together with a wide look at the parental leave system . we will get back to the hon . Lady on that . I welcome this Government ' s commitment to get more disposable income in the pocket of work people . at Christmas time a lot of people will want to buy concert ticket ; what conversation be the Minister have with Cabinet colleague on reform the secondary ticketing market ? hopefully , we will make an announcement very shortly about plan in that area . business of the House will the Leader of the House please give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 16 December include : Monday 16 December — Second reading of the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill [ Lords ] . Tuesday 17 December — Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill . Wednesday 18 December — Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Lords Spiritual ( Women ) Act 2015 ( extension ) Bill [ Lords ] , follow by Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Financial Assistance to Ukraine Bill , follow by remain stage of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill [ Lords ] . Thursday 19 December — general debate on matter to be raise before the forthcoming adjournment . the subject for this debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . the House will rise for the Christmas recess at the conclusion of business on Thursday 19 December and return on Monday 6 January 2025 . the provisional business for the week commence 6 January will include : Monday 6 January — business to be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . further business will be announce in the usual way . what a marvellous time of year it be when I see the Christmas tree in New Palace Yard , and the trilling sound of the parliamentary and Salvation Army choir to boot . on a slightly more sober note , you will recall , Mr Speaker , that the story of this government so far have be one of early scandal , a first reset and a delayed budget , and now what we can expect to be a delay spending review . we must hope that at some point the Government will get round to actually make policy . I be afraid that this week have bring further confirmation of the disastrous effect of the November Budget . as member will recall , the Institute for Fiscal Studies predict at the time that the rise in national insurance would hit low - wage and more labour - intensive part of the economy hard , and predict that the Chancellor may need to raise taxis again soon . the Chancellor ' s reaction , as she tell the CBI , be : " I ' m really clear , I ' m not come back with more borrowing or more taxis . " we will see how long that promise last . only this week , the Financial Times report that hiring have fall more sharply in the UK than in other major economy over the past year , include the US , France , Germany , Canada and Australia . luckily , however , we now have the Government ' s new plan for change . I think the whole House should welcome the fact that the Government now have a plan , only 14 year and seven month after they first start in opposition , and that their plan be to change direction . I would describe the plan for change as a fine , fat Herefordshire beef cow that have be inadequately feed with the Reform party ' s favourite anti - methane feed supplement , Bovaer : it be a beast full of nutrition , but with a certain amount of unnecessary flatulence . a lot of medium commentator have have fun with the Government ' s blizzard of to - do list , include their six first step , six milestone , five national mission and three foundation , but I be afraid that they have miss the Christmas spirit of the thing — all we need now be policy announcement on turtle dove and partridge in pear tree to complete their new initiative advent calendar . I jest , Mr Speaker . I come not to bury Caesar , but to praise he . I be not go to indulge in the easy mockery of the commentariat : on the contrary , I can report genuine sign of reality break through in the plan for change — something rarely see in a document from this Government . the Prime Minister say : " in 2010 , the incoming government inherit public finance in desperate need of repair . " he be absolutely right : public finance in 2010 be in desperate need of repair . he also say that we need " a profound cultural shift away from a declinist mentality , which have become … comfortable with failure " , and again , I think he be absolutely right . finally , and most notably , he say that " we can not tax our way to prosperity or spend our way to well public service . " not only that , but the Government have sensibly drop their commitment to 100 % clean energy by 2030 , as Conservative Members have call for , and as I specifically highlight only a couple of week ago . the plan for change be a revolutionary gospel indeed : honest about the poor performance of the previous Labour Government , realistic in not seek to blame government for wide global event , seek to adopt a long - term approach and recognise the need to limit tax and spending . all we can hope now be that someone spread this revolutionary gospel , in the Christmas spirit , to the rest of the Government . but I also have various concern about the plan for change that I would like to put to the House . it barely mention the crucial short - term issue — and long - term issue — of defence , highlight once again this week by event in Syria , or the vital long - term issue of social care , which all party concede have be inadequately handle over the past 30 year . these be extraordinary omission in what purport to be an inclusive , long - term reset for the Government . there be more fundamental question to be address , too . the idea of a mission be a fashionable one in policy circle , but it imply a total commitment to the goal . how will that be reconcile with the obligation of the civil service , and the Prime Minister ' s new efficiency tsar , to demonstrate short - term value for money ? how will all this be reconcile with the Government ' s intense desire to campaign aggressively against those they see as their political enemy , rather than recruit they soberly to a political consensus that could provide a sustainable basis for these mission ? I would be very interested to know what the Leader of the House think on these issue , and how they will shape her approach to the conduct of future business in this House . may I start by say how appalled I be — I be sure the whole House be — about the detail that have emerge on the murder of Sara Sharif ? may I say , on behalf of the Government , that nothing be more important than keep child safe ? we be committed to further reform of child ' s social care and much strong safeguard for child be take into home education . that be long overdue and further detail will be announce imminently . I take this opportunity to congratulate the new Chair of the Liaison Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) . I know the Prime Minister be very much look forward to his regular appearance before it . I also congratulate my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) on his appointment as the UK special envoy for freedom of religion or belief . I be sure he be look forward to his very frequent and very regular meeting with the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . I also remind the House that the Modernisation Committee ' s call for view end next Monday . we have have huge interest in this agenda from Members old and new . I encourage everyone to submit their idea . I think we might have have a little bit more Christmas cheer from the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , but it be another rather strange and confused contribution . perhaps he can work on his Christmas joke a bit more ahead of next week ' s business question . let I share some merry news instead , Mr Speaker . we be make the big change that people vote for : rebuild Britain and fix the mess that the Conservatives leave we ; reshape the state and society to put ordinary people at the front of the queue . over half our King ' s Speech programme be progress through Parliament : the big change for worker in a generation , give security and dignity at work ; put power back in the hand of renter so that they can get the secure , quality tenancy they deserve ; switch on great British Energy for low bill and energy security ; bring rail service back into public ownership , already deliver well reliability ; take on water boss to clean up our waterway ; and reform our planning law to build more affordable home . the right hon . Gentleman do not like it , but nobody can deny that these be the big necessary change in the service of ordinary people , root in our value . and yes , we have a plan for change — the right hon . Gentleman ask about it — and we be deliver it . the country vote for change : they vote to change from the Conservatives ' government and record ; they vote to improve their living standard ; they vote to change the NHS ; and they vote because they want this country to be fix . he raise defence and social care spending . perhaps that be his good Christmas joke so far , because the Conservatives ' record on that be woeful . we will not take any lecture from they on that , I be afraid . the truth be that we be six week into the new Leader of the Opposition ' s tenure and the Conservatives ' strategy for opposition be as clear as mud . they seem to have learn nothing . they have no new idea . they disown their record one day and defend it the next . perhaps instead of the right hon . Gentleman ' s ridiculous tired commentary , they could reflect and apologise for the mess they leave , and ensure that the country get the change it deserve . rise — the Leader of the House rightly mention a live case . I hope nobody will add to that , because it be in the court at the moment . next year , Bradford district will take on the honour of city of culture . my constituency will be host event celebrate local artist and our industrial heritage . will my right hon . friend join I in wish Bradford 2025 well , and will she consider grant time for a debate on the contribution of northern city to our british culture ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Bradford as the city of culture . she be absolutely right to point out how much of our british culture be root in our northern city like Bradford , Manchester and other — Chorley and elsewhere , Mr Speaker . I be sure that will make a great topic for a debate . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . this week the Institute for Fiscal Studies have warn we that local authority ’ special educational need and disability deficit be currently £ 3 . 3 billion , and that without proper reform it could rise to £ 8 billion within three year . it be clear that , even with the deficit at £ 3 . 3 billion , the Government ' s Budget announcement of £ 1 billion be less than a third of what local authority need for SEND just to allow they to stand still . meanwhile , accord to analysis by Special Needs Jungle , the £ 740 million of capital funding announce recently be less than the average amount of similar funding over the last three year — and besides , it be capital funding , which mean building and equipment . I be not say that the money be not welcome , but what be the point of have more classroom if we do not have the teacher , teach assistant and support staff to fill they ? online report suggest that the Education Secretary tell teach union this week that school would have to find money for their underwhelming 2 . 8 % pay increase from efficiency saving in exist budget . she suggest , I understand — I be check my note , because it seem a little optimistic — that school could pay for it by switch their bank and energy provider . will the Leader of the House ask the Education Secretary to come to the House as a matter of urgency to lay out her plan for education and special educational need ? nothing that the Government have announce so far be go to make thing well , and there be child ' s life at stake . I thank the hon . Lady for raise the issue of special educational need . she be entirely right : the crisis that be leave in SEND support in our school be appal — it be one of the terrible legacy of the Conservative Government — and demand be high than ever . this be one of the big issue face the education sector , which be why in the Budget , as the hon . Lady rightly point out , we announce an extra £ 1 billion for SEND , the big uplift that it have receive for many year . of course , that will not solve all the problem overnight ; it be a down payment on the work that we will do , and be already do , to reform SEND and get the resource in , which be vital to our education sector . the hon . Lady also raise the issue of teacher ' pay . I be proud that one of this Government ' s first act be to agree to the independent pay review body ' s recommendation of the pay rise that they have long deserve , and we will continue to support our education sector in respect of all its need . this week some year 8 student from Ark Blake academy , in my constituency , write to I raise concern about food security both globally and locally . they highlight the impact of conflict on access to food , the unacceptable increase in the number of food bank in our country , and the shocking rise in the number of child skip lunch because their family can not afford it . will the Leader of the House allow time for a debate on what the Government can do to improve access to food both here and at home , and will she join I in thank the pupil from Ark Blake for raise these important issue ? I be delighted to join my hon . friend in congratulate those pupil on raise the issue of food poverty , especially at a time of year when the people ' s need in relation to both food and present — Christmas poverty — be so stark . we all see that in our constituency . I be sure that this would make a very good topic for a debate , and I expect we will shortly hear from the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee ! your wish be my command . in addition to the business that the Leader of the House have announce , on Tuesday 7 January , with your permission , Mr Speaker , there will be a debate in Westminster Hall on pay gap in the workplace , and on Thursday 9 January , provide that that date be provide for we , there will be two debate , one on seize frozen russian asset to fund Ukraine , and the other on the impact of food and diet on obesity — which will be quite appropriate after the Christmas festivity . may I urge colleague who wish to participate in the pre - recess Adjournment debate next week to apply to you , Mr Speaker , to be put on the speaker list so that we know how many people be likely to want to speak ? two year ago , on a cross - party basis , it be agree to abolish the Vagrancy Act 1824 . the only thing that be not provide be a commencement date . what be need now be either a statutory instrument or further primary legislation to remove the Act from the statute book once and for all . there appear to be a dispute between the Home Office and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , which neither seem able to resolve . will the Leader of the House arrange for a statement to be make on when such legislation will be introduce , so that those who be homeless on our street will not face be arrest but instead will be assist ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for announce some of the forthcoming debate . after Christmas , I will probably very much need to attend the obesity debate — I do a mean Christmas gravy , which I be already look forward to . the hon . Gentleman mention the important matter of a commencement provision for the repeal of the Vagrancy Act . he have do so much to bring about the change that be need , and I commend he for all his work . I will ensure that the Department have hear his question , and that an update be give to he and the House at the early opportunity . give the widespread revulsion at the violent crackdown on peaceful protester in Georgia , will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on that matter ? Imedi TV , the main propaganda arm of that brutal Government , operate and be direct from the UK through a company call Hunnewell Partners , so in such a debate we might be able to discuss whether it be time for a National Crime Agency investigation into those operation and the direction from this country of pro - russian propaganda and incitement to violence against peaceful protester . the Government continue to call on the Georgian Government to halt their move away from democratic norm and their isolation from western partner , and we continue to condemn the excessive use of force against protester and journalist . my hon . friend mention the important issue of hold company operate in that area . I think I hear the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , highlight a debate that might be a good opportunity for my hon . friend to raise that matter . just to inform the House , we may have until only 11 . 30 be for this business , so let we all help each other to get in . I call Martin Vickers , who will set a good example . thank you , Mr Speaker . during the last Parliament , I initiate a Westminster Hall debate about the grow evidence that bright led light on vehicle be result in more road traffic accident . I know that the Leader of the House might tell I that I can initiate yet another debate , but it would be even well if she arrange for a Minister to make a statement about the evidence that the Department for Transport be collect on that matter . the impact of led light in road traffic accident be an important issue . I will indeed ensure that the hon . Gentleman get a full response from a Minister , or that a Minister come to the House . labour commit in our manifesto to phase out animal testing — a goal that be not only widely support by the public , but critical to advance scientific innovation . however , that achievement require cross - departmental work . will the Leader of the House allow time to debate that issue so that Parliament can explore how to turn that commitment into concrete action , and will she join I in hope for a cruelty - free Christmas ? I do join my hon . friend in hope for a cruelty - free Christmas . she raise important issue on which we have a number of manifesto commitment . she will know that they be not currently in the legislative programme for this session , but I be aware of the strength of feeling , and I be sure that thing will be bring forward in the usual way . last week , the Government state that they would move away from SEND safety valve agreement , which have see many local authority across the country enter short - term funding deal with the Department for Education . although that be welcome news , it have leave those in exist arrangement — include my local authority , South Gloucestershire council — worry about the future . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time about the nature of the change and ensure that exist arrangement be fair , and to discuss how to provide all child with special educational need and disability the quality education that they deserve ? the hon . Lady raise yet another important issue . the Government be try to ensure that we have early intervention , and that the power to take action on that be in the hand of local authority and other . we will introduce the child ' s wellbee Bill imminently , to tackle some of those issue at their core . small business be at the heart of our local economy , and they be crucial to our ambition to deliver sustained growth . last weekend , it be great to meet so many inspire small business in Rossendale and Darwen during Small Business Weekend . I be also privileged to attend the Rossendale business award , which be a great celebration of entrepreneurial and community spirit . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the business award winner ? Bear with I , as there be quite a few : Bacup Museum , Baha Accessories , D . o . g . Grooming , the Chubby Duck , Rossendale Radio , Carvansons , SolvAssist , Kelsea Bennett , be You Lifestyle , Design Hut , Whitworth leisure centre , Olive Branch , the Ashcroft , Dansworks , unscripted — order . member be not mean to name a full list of different business . in fairness , I think the Leader of the House have have a real flavour of the importance of Rossendale and Darwen . I be very well aware of how important small business be in Rossendale and Darwen . over the year , I have enjoy many a nice cup of tea and cake in Rossendale and Darwen , and I think my hon . friend be go to invite I . I be sure I will have one soon . the Leader of the House may not be aware of this , but Vodafone franchise across the country , include in my constituency , have launch a High Court action because the company have cut remuneration without notice and with no justification , despite benefit from Government payment during the pandemic to support struggle franchise . can we therefore have a debate on how these soulless , heartless corporate business be cost livelihood , oblivious of the consequence ? these struggle franchise will close , and the worker will be sack . I be really sorry to hear about the case in the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , and I be glad that he have take the opportunity to raise it on the Floor of the House . he will know this Government be commit to take on the vested interest in this country and put ordinary people and community back at the front of the queue , but I will ensure that he get a proper reply . on Friday , I have the joy of visit a couple of local organisation : the Southend business partnership and the Southend art collective . what be apparent from these meeting be the will and the talent in Southend East and Rochford to reanimate the city . however , like many constituency , we struggle with the loss of grassroots sport , music venue , leisure facility and high street shop . will the Leader of the House join I in recognise the hard work of both collective and grant a debate on the importance of extracurricular activity in low socio - economic area ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important matter . he be right to highlight the importance of grassroots sport , culture and other to our local community and high street . he will be aware that we have a curriculum review at the moment . we be also ensure there be fund for grassroots sport in England , and he might want to note that the Government ' s plan for devolution and support our high street will be announce imminently to this House . both the Scotland Office and the Northern Ireland Office tell I that the Northern Ireland enhance investment zone be still alive and still in play , and have not fall into the fictitious £ 22 billion black hole . however , there be no indication of when it will actually be deliver . give the multiple agency involve , could we have some clarity on this ? and can we address the policy of " devolve and forget " operate by this Government , which be so damaging to both Scotland and Northern Ireland ? the hon . Gentleman might want to raise this matter at Northern Ireland question when we return . in the meantime , I will ensure that minister have hear his question . Queensway Gateway in my constituency be know as the " road to nowhere " because it have be leave unfinished for over a decade , so my constituent in Hastings and Rye be delighted that the Labour Government confirm more than £ 2 . 5 million to finish the road . however , Conservative - run East Sussex county council have let the work overrun for month and month , leave resident and business stick in delay . local business have lose million . will the Leader of the House join I in call on East Sussex county council to get the road finish ? my hon . friend raise an important matter for her constituency , and I join she in encourage the council to get on with make sure that the road to nowhere finally go somewhere . there be a Dunkelflaute across the UK and the whole of Europe , mean there be no wind and therefore reduce power generation . that highlight the importance of alternative energy source , such as nuclear . will the Leader of the House ask the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero to update the House on the expansion programme for small modular reactor , to ensure we have alterative power source ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that nuclear will play an important part in our ambition to be a clean energy superpower by 2030 , a target I be sure he will join I in welcome . I assure he that he will have the opportunity to question the Secretary of State on this matter very soon . during UK Parliament Week , I meet student at the Orchards education health and need unit in Leadgate in my constituency , which focus on the emotional and educational need of key stage 4 pupil . they tell I their concern about long waiting list for child and adolescent mental health service , and other mental health support service , to address the need of young people and allow they to do well in their exam . they feel lucky to have focus support , but would like it to be available to other people . they have ask I to ask if we can have a debate in Government time to explore urgent and strategic action to ensure that the mental health need of all young people be meet . I really enjoy hear about Members ' visit during Parliament Week ; I know you have many such visit , Mr Speaker . I be on " Newsround " this week talk about Parliament Week — I have never have more cut - through . my hon . friend raise important issue about CAMHS and mental health support for our young people . we be committed to get more mental health support into our school , and I will ensure the topic be consider for debate . I have recently notice an increase in case work from pensioner about access the west midland pension fund , a pension scheme that appear to be run jointly by local government and the Department for Work and Pensions , administer by City of Wolverhampton council . will the Leader of the House assist I in try to get Government Departments to come together to unlock what be become a very slow process that be affect people from a number of constituency in the west midland ? I be happy to look into that issue for the right hon . Lady . as she know , we have have a big drive to ensure that pensioner who be eligible for pension credit get it . we have also put extra resource into the household support fund budget for local authority . she highlight an issue about department work together well to ensure that support get to those who need it most , and I will take up her question . today , the integrate care board in Leicester , Leicestershire and Rutland be due to consider a paper on the removal of prescription support for people who require gluten - free product because they be coeliac . that would mean people in North West Leicestershire , as well as the wide Leicestershire area , will no long have prescription service for those product from January next year . around 50 % of trust in England be now in that position . I personally know how expensive it be to manage a restricted diet , and while gluten - free product be become more widely available , they be still extraordinarily expensive . will the Leader of the House offer Government time to discuss the prescription postcode lottery for people who be coeliac ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important issue . as she know , the national prescribing position in England remain that gluten - free bread and mix be provide to everybody who require they , but , as she say , the local integrate care board be now responsible for arrange provision in their area . I will ensure that the Health Secretary have hear her question and give she a full reply . Dalton Mills in Keighley , which have previously be the film set for " Peaky Blinders " and the like , have unfortunately experience continual arson attack . the most damaging fire be back in March 2022 , when £ 15 million of damage be cause , and the most recent arson attack happen only two day ago . the situation be cause deep concern to many constituent across Keighley because the site , which be own by the Crown Estate , be dangerous and derelict , and need to be secure . can we have a debate in Government time on the responsibility of landowner , include the Crown Estate , to ensure that derelict site that be dangerous be properly secure ? the situation the hon . Gentleman describe with the film set in Keighley be deeply concern ; I will ensure that he get a full reply about it . the Crown Estates Bill will shortly be come back to the House , so there may be an opportunity for he to raise the issue during its passage . Dementia be the lead cause of death in the United Kingdom . in my constituency of Wolverhampton West , it be estimate that nearly 30 % of dementia case be undiagnosed . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate to give dementia the political priority it deserve , so that there be early diagnosis , with timely social , medical and nursing care for sufferer , as well as mental health and other support for carer , and so that positive step be take to find a cure for dementia ? we can all relate to my hon . friend ' s question on the blight of dementia and the suffering of those who have it and of their family . the Government be commit to tackle those issue . the matter have be raise in business question a number of time , so I be sure it would make a popular Backbench Business debate be he to apply for one . train between Rose Hill Marple and Manchester Piccadilly be timetable to run every 30 minute in the morning , yet this morning , only one make it between 7 o ' clock and 9 o ' clock and it have only two carriage . such a lack of service be not unusual ; it happen once or twice a week . since the breakdown of discussion between the conductor and the already nationalise Northern , there have be no service on a Sunday . that be massively impact my constituent , who be have to reject job offer because they can not have faith that they will get to work on time . will the Leader of the House allocate some Government time for a debate about service on the Hope Valley line ? I be all too well aware of the challenge on the northern network that the hon . Lady describe and the issue on Sundays and with cancellation and capacity . I know that there be ongoing discussion and that this be at the top of the agenda for the Secretary of State for Transport . I will ensure that she come to the House as soon as she have any further information to share . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Sussex Circus fish Bar in Chaddesden for its 50 year of frying , and its owner Ronnie , who be two week old when his parent open it ? with one in seven of we choose to have fish and chip for Christmas dinner , a debate on the endure contribution of chippie to our national culture and cuisine and as a focal point in our community would be timely , allow we to discuss how we can support and thank those high street food business that serve we at this time of year . they ' ll be cold at this rate . I think we can agree that we be all a bit partial to some lovely fish and chip . Ronnie ' s Sussex Circus Fish Bar sound like one place we should all be visit . I congratulate they as well . my hon . friend might want to raise the issue she mention in the Adjournment debate next Thursday , which be a great opportunity for people to raise issue to do with Christmas , and I be sure we will have good attendance . invitation to local eatery be always welcome . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be sure that the Leader of the House will agree that we should always acknowledge and congratulate great british sporting success story and that every Member be glue to their television on Sunday to watch McLaren secure its first constructor ' championship since 1998 . will she join I in congratulate McLaren , that great british icon , on its success ? also , to make up for the apparent lack of acknowledgment from the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , can we have a debate on the value of motorsport to the british economy ? I would rather not talk about sport today , as a Manchester City fan . anyway , I certainly join the hon . member in congratulate McLaren . my son be a big Formula 1 fan and have all the McLaren gear , so it do not go unnoticed in my house . McLaren be a great british icon and on behalf of the Government , I congratulate it . last week , the University of Northampton publish its economic impact assessment , which show that for every £ 1 of income it receive , it generate £ 4 in my local economy , and that 54 % of graduate enter full - time job in the health and education sector , compare with 38 % nationally . will the Leader of the House join I in recognise the importance of university such as mine to local economy ? will she also make Government time to support fair funding for university , such as the University of Northampton ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate the University of Northampton . it sound like it have a strong track record . he will know that we have inherit a really difficult situation when it come to high education funding in this country , but the Secretary of State for Education be focus on that matter and I know that she will keep the House update on her plan . will the Leader of the House allow time for a debate so that we can pay tribute to our young sporting hero ? I be sure that all member have many example , but 22 - year - old cyclist Oscar Onley from Kelso be recently award the title of male rider of the year by Scottish Cycling after become the first Scottish - develop rider to start the Tour de France for 31 year . will she take this opportunity to congratulate Oscar on behalf of we all ? absolutely . I join the hon . member in congratulate Oscar on his fantastic achievement . Oscar be really break some ground there — cycling in the Tour de France as a Scottish - develop cyclist . Pippa , Britain ' s first ever illegal vape sniffer dog , win a special hero award this week from the Chartered Trading Standards Institute . springer spaniel Pippa be honour along with rochdale trading standard and police for their work seize vape target at child by organise crime group . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Pippa and the rochdale team on their dog detective work ? now that be a good Christmas joke ! that ' s how to tell ' em , I say . I absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate Pippa on her very paw - itive work . [ hon . member : " Urgh " . ] never mind . perhaps the team want to come to Manchester Central to clear up some of the vape we have there . in Sawtry , in my constituency of Huntingdon , Freda and John Grace have create a Christmas display at their home to rival the bright light of Regent Street . they have overcome the damage from Storm Bert , rebuild the display and open their home for all to enjoy , raise £ 267 on opening night alone . the light will be on every afternoon until 9 pm , until 1 January , should anybody wish to look at they — I be look here at the hon . member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) , if he should find himself pass by . will the Leader of House join I in congratulate Freda and John on their fantastic effort to raise money for charity and to spread some Christmas cheer ? can she make time in the parliamentary schedule to celebrate fundraiser in all our constituency , especially during this Christmas period ? may I join the hon . member in congratulate and thank Freda and John for their very generous activity and all their fundraising work ? he be absolutely right that we should all come together as often as we can in this House to congratulate and celebrate our constituent for the great work that they do . on Saturday , I will be go to the Newmarket Street winter festival in Ayr in my constituency of Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock . music , food and dancing will help we get into the Christmas spirit , and it will also allow I to sort out my shopping . although my right hon . friend be welcome to join I , I appreciate that the journey to Scotland , and possibly the weather , may make she feel like she be go to the North Pole . however , will she join I in welcome festive event such as this and support small business , and will she find time for a debate on support our high street ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate those involve in Newmarket Street ' s winter festival , which sound like a really great place to get some last - minute Christmas shopping . I be very behind on mine this year , so perhaps it would be quick for I to go up to Scotland to do it . many of my constituent in Bridgwater be worried about the risk that flood pose to their home , business and farm . they be concerned that the Environment Agency fail to adequately dredge our river and maintain our stream and brooks , rhyne and culvert . can the Leader of the House find time for a debate on the Environment Agency and flood prevention ? I thank the hon . member for that question . obviously , this be a grow issue , as we see the effect of climate change in many of our community . he will know that the Government ' s flood resilience taskforce be at work try to co - ordinate many of these issue . we have be forthcoming with statement and update to the House on our flood resilience , and I will ensure that that remain the case . will the Leader of the House join I in celebrate the recent opening of two permanent banking hub in my constituency — one in Horwich and one in Westhoughton — both of which I have the immense pleasure of opening ? will she join I in thank the hard - work staff , include Jackie , Rabina and Ghulum in Horwich and Siraj in Westhoughton who provide a vital service to community and business across the Bolton West constituency ? it be a refreshing change in these session to hear about a banking hub opening and provide great access to cash in a local community , such as that in his constituency , instead of hear about its closure . I very much join my hon . friend in congratulate and thank the hard - work staff involve . I would very much like to congratulate the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary on their decision to appoint a new special envoy for freedom of religion or belief . the right hon . Lady know that , after numerous attempt , we finally have one — the hon . member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) . however , can she outline the specific objective and expect outcome of this appointment , whether the position be enshrine in law and how the position will contribute to advance the Government ' s priority on both a national and international level ? I be ever mindful of Proverbs 31 : 8 - 9 : " open your mouth for the voiceless , for the right of all who be destitute . open your mouth , judge righteously , defend the right of the poor and needy . " I know that the hon . member for North Northumberland will do just that . I thank the hon . gentleman for welcome the appointment of my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) as the UK special envoy for freedom of religion or belief . I be only sorry that it be not the hon . Gentleman himself , but I know that he will play a keen and active role in ensure that my hon . friend carry out his advocacy role properly , and that the many issue that the hon . Gentleman raise in this House , week after week , be take up by the Government . since the closure of the Harlow Star in 2019 , Harlow have not have a town - wide print newspaper , although the online platform your Harlow have a number of article that go out town - wide . may I ask for a debate in Government time about the future of print medium and , in particular , the requirement in legislation for planning application to be publish in print medium , rather than on online platform . I join my hon . friend in note the importance of this matter . local print newspaper , as well as online medium , be vital to share factual , correct information about what be happen in our community in an age of social medium , misinformation and disinformation , which we have see time and again recently . the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport be very committed to these issue , and I will ensure that my hon . friend and the House be update . rural community often feel neglect when it come to crime . House of Commons Library research show a 32 % rise in rural crime since 2011 , compare with 24 % in urban area . that include 130 , 000 more reported offence , and 30 , 000 additional case of criminal damage and arson . those figure highlight — [ interruption . ] I will come to the question , Mr Speaker . I hope so . may I ask the Leader of the House for a debate on rural crime in Government time ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important topic . tackle rural crime be really important to the Government , and we be committed to safeguard our rural community . be he to apply for a debate on the subject , I think it would be very popular . I be sure that my right hon . friend will share my concern about the evidence present today in Imperial College ' s national patient safety report . for the first time in 10 year , more woman be die during or shortly after pregnancy , and more baby be die within 28 day of be bear . this be a particular concern in East Thanet , where our maternity service have to be take into special measure only a few year ago . will she ask her colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care to present a plan to the House for address this worrying situation ? like my hon . friend , I be shocked to hear those statistic this morning . what a damn indictment it be of our healthcare system that more child be now die at a young age than have do in recent time . I will certainly ensure that the Health Secretary have hear her question , and that she be give a full response . Peterborough lido be one of the jewel in the crown of our city . just two year ago , we have a hydrotherapy pool and an indoor pool as well as the lido , but due to the reckless behaviour of the previous Conservative Administration , the hydrotherapy pool be bulldoze and the indoor pool be close . the lido will be at risk in future year . will my right hon . friend ensure that the Government recognise the vital role of swim for leisure , sport and wellbeing , and join I in congratulate the thousand of resident , include I , who be rally to keep our lido safe ? absolutely . I join my hon . friend in note the importance of indoor and outdoor pool , and of swim generally , to a healthy society and to our agenda for preventive public health . it be vital that we keep local lido such as his alive . he will have a strong ally in the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , who be partial to an outdoor swim . an investor in my constituency be interested in regenerate a site , which would create job and growth in a community that really need it , but the owner of the site seem unwilling to engage with the local authority or my office , which have contact they seven time since August . what avenue can I take , through Parliament , to bring the organisation to the table and get the project off the ground ? I be always sorry to hear of local investor , business or other agency in constituency that will not engage with a Member of Parliament . my hon . friend have mention they in Parliament today , and I hope that will make they more forthcoming in response to his request for a meeting . I be frequently contact by biodiversity , nature and climate group across my Hexham constituency that be encourage by our commitment to climate , nature and biodiversity . they be concern , though , about the timescale for the Government ' s ratification of the global oceans treaty . will the Leader of the House give some clarity on the timeline ? my hon . friend will know that the Government be commit to the global oceans treaty , and we be an international leader on climate and nature . the Foreign Secretary be commit to ensure that we ratify the treaty , and I will ensure that an update be give to the House in due course . party with member elect to this place should uphold the british value of tolerance and respect , but many constituent have contact I to express alarm about the way that local officer of the Reform party in County Durham be harass and smear local charity and town councillor , and be use their social medium platform to promote hatred , Islamophobia and misogyny . no other party in this place would accept such behaviour ; they would chuck those people out and ensure that they do not stand as candidate . could the Leader of the House advise I on what we can do to ensure increase civility in public life ? I be incredibly sorry and disappoint to hear of the harassment be perpetrate against elect official in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and the whole House will have hear his call . I hope the leadership of Reform and other party that may be carry out such harassment will hear his question and take action against those thug , because we need to defend democracy and our elect representative at all cost . I do not know if the Leader of the House have be catch up in the wild swimming trend , which we in the Western Isles just call " swim in the sea " . one of my constituent have take that to the limit : Colin S . macleod , charity fundraiser extraordinaire , have be swim a mile ' s length of the beach every day this year , and he will have raise £ 8 , 000 for the Royal National Lifeboat Institution this Saturday when he complete his 1 , 000 - mile Land ' s end to shetland charity swim . would the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Colin , find time for a debate on open - water swimming , and perhaps join Colin for a dip ? I do love a swim in the sea , though I be not sure anybody be ready to see I in my swimsuit any day soon . I will certainly join my hon . friend in congratulate Colin for swim a mile a day and complete his 1 , 000 mile — what a great achievement — and for raise all that money for RNLI , which be such an important cause . recent BBC news analysis find that burn household rubbish in waste incinerator be the dirty way that the UK produce power . when might the relevant Minister update the House on exactly how and when we will move away from harmful incinerator ? will the Government support my campaign to implement a moratorium on build new incinerator in South Dorset and nationwide ? the Government be commit to develop a circular economy in which we do not need waste incinerator , and my hon . friend be right to raise the issue . it have be raise with I a number of time , so I be sure that if he apply for a debate on the use of waste incinerator , it would be well attend . last week , I have the honour of witness the first flight to Doncaster Sheffield airport since its closure in 2022 . this be make possible not just by the hard work of Doncaster Mayor Ros Jones and the whole team , but by 2Excel , an aviation company that have maintain its base at the airport . will my right hon . friend join I in celebrate this incredible achievement for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ? I absolutely will . my hon . friend have be a dogged campaigner for Doncaster airport , and I be thrilled that he get to see the first flight to that airport in many year . I also congratulate Mayor Ros Jones and 2Excel on all the work that they be do to ensure that this important airport in my hon . friend ' s constituency go from strength to strength . early this year , Swanscombe and Greenhithe town council in my constituency apply in round 4 , window 1 , of application to the community ownership fund for money to refurbish Swanscombe pavilion . that pavilion once be , and could again be , a wonderful hub for our community , provide opportunity for people to engage in sport , culture and art . the council be tell that decision making have be put on hold for the general election , and have not yet receive a yes or no from the Government . might the Leader of the House arrange for the relevant Minister to make a statement to the House , give clarity on whether crucial community project such as Swanscombe pavilion will receive the funding that they so desperately need ? I be sorry to hear that my hon . friend have not have a response about Swanscombe pavilion in his constituency . the vital role that these hub — these culture and leisure facility — play in our local community can not be overestimate , and I will ensure that he get a ministerial response forthwith . leaseholder in Hendon constituency — in Colindale , in West Hendon and in Edgware — be get a raw deal . the big property manage agent company that maintain their development have put up service charge this year by as much as 40 % , but all too often be fail to provide an adequate service , or even a basic explanation of why charge have go up so much . it have to stop . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time on regulate manage agent ? absolutely . I know from my constituency what a shocking scandal this be . as my hon . friend know , the Government be commit to full leasehold and commonhold reform ; the Minister for Housing and Planning be sit next to I nod his head . we will consult next year on proposal to strengthen the regulation of manage agent . a constituent recently share with I his experience of apply for his dream job with Border Force . initially , he be tell that he would be place on a reserve list three month after complete the recruitment process . six month later , he be offer the role , which would require he to relocate to England . he be inform two day later that due to his past employment as a holiday rep , he would no long be consider . five month later , his case be flag for review and he be tell that role in Scotland would be available to he . recently , while recover from cancer , he be chase for a response , and he re - engage with the process , only to be tell — two and a half year after apply — that he would no long be consider . will the Leader of the House support I in request time to discuss recruitment practice for our increasingly important Border Force , so that we do not deter enthusiastic , trained and empathetic young people from join ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be important that our border security force be staff by the bright and the good who want to work with it , and I will ensure that the Home Secretary give my hon . friend a full response on this case . on Friday , I attend the opening night of panto at the fantastic South Hill Park art centre in Bracknell . [ hon . member : " oh , no , you didn ' t ! " ] oh , yes , I do . local art venue such as South Hill Park suffer year of funding cut under the previous Government . will my right hon . friend arrange for a debate on fund local art centre ? he ' s behind I , Mr Speaker ! the importance of panto season for our local theatre can not be overestimate — it be usually what fund they through the rest of the year . my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the issue of local theatre and art venue , and I be sure it would make a great topic for a debate . I welcome the debate on LGBT veteran that will take place later . my constituent Martin Bell and David Kelsey have be severely wrong by the ban on LGBT people serve in the military . will the Leader of the House join I and the Government in recognise the wrong that they have suffer , and welcome the step to bring forward financial reparation ? I strongly welcome today ' s debate , and announcement on reparation and recognition for our LGBT veteran . like my hon . friend , I have constituent and other who be affect by this terrible practice over many year , and I be delighted that today , we be put that right . last week , I visit the Ferns primary academy , which I be pleased to say have have its termination warning remove because of its significantly improve ofsted judgment . it be clear to I that , as state by Ofsted , the school be determine " that all pupil , include those with special educational need and / or disability … achieve their good . " will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the school on its progress , and can we have a debate about support our school to be aspirational for every student ? I certainly join my hon . friend in congratulate the primary school in her constituency on its Ofsted rating be turn around . she be right to highlight that we need to support school in make sure that they support everybody , especially those with special educational need , to get the education they deserve . the recently propose closure of a council - own museum and theatre in Cannock Chase have shine a bright light on how much culture and heritage venue such as those mean to community like mine and on the challenge face the art and museum more broadly . would the Leader of the House join I in commend the campaigner fight to save our museum and theatre , and would she make time for a debate on how we can safeguard and develop culture and heritage , particularly outside our big city ? I think this be the fourth question I have have today on the vital role that local culture and theatre play in our community and in keep our high street as the vibrant centre that we want they to be . I be sure the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee have hear those question , and I would advise everybody to club together and get a good debate on this issue . Grange community primary school in Winsford have just retain its status as a centre of excellence through the inclusion quality mark . this award recognise the school ' s commitment to make sure that inclusion be a priority , and that the educational and personal need of every child , include those with SEND , be meet through its curriculum . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate everybody at the school on this fantastic achievement , and will she arrange a debate in Government time on the importance of inclusive provision in mainstream school ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate Grange community nursery and primary school in his constituency on its great work on inclusion and support child with special educational need . we have have lot of discussion of that topic this morning , and I be it sure would make a great topic for a debate . two week ago today , after much anger and the bad stink possible , Walleys Quarry landfill site be close by the Environment Agency . this be a victory for my constituent and all of we who live in Newcastle - under - Lyme . notwithstanding any legal action — and the loss of my voice from talk about it so much — will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to all those who campaign so hard to finally get these cowboy operator close down ? I congratulate my hon . friend , as well as those in his community , on his dogged campaigning — order . we must stop this . the hon . Gentleman have just ask a question , and the hon . member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) have walk straight in front of he . that be the second time in these question . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) on his dogged campaigning to get Walleys Quarry in his constituency close down because of the action of those run it . he have raise it with I a number of time , and I be sure his constituent will be very grateful for the action he have take . my right hon . friend will be aware of speculation about certain high - profile individual seek to interfere in our politic with their money , and about concern example from the last Parliament of opaque foreign fund find their way here . will the Leader of the House make time to debate update our election law to ensure that foreign money stay out of our politic ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this important matter . it be clear that foreign donation to political party in this country be not allow , but the Government do recognise the risk pose by malign actor who seek to interfere with and undermine our democratic process . I be sure that the relevant Secretary of State will want to continue to update the House on this important matter . I think we do really well , and it be great that we have manage to complete business question only a minute or so over time . build Homes with your permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to update the House on our plan to build the home our country so desperately need . this Labour Government be elect five month ago with a mandate to deliver national renewal . stand on the step of Downing Street on 5 July , the Prime Minister make it clear that work on that urgent task would begin immediately , and it do . within our first month in office , we propose a bold set of reform to overhaul a planning system that be falter on all front after a decade of piecemeal and inept tinker by the conservative party . today I confirm to the House that we be deliver the change we promise by publish an update national planning policy framework , meet our commitment to do so before the end of the year , and support our ambitious plan for change milestone of build 1 . 5 million new home in this Parliament . the case for grasp the nettle of planning reform in order significantly to boost housing supply and unleash economic growth be incontrovertible . England be in the grip of an acute and entrenched housing crisis , and as you , Mr Speaker , and every Member of the House will know , its detrimental consequence be now all pervasive : a generation lock out of home ownership ; 1 . 3 million people languish on social housing waiting list ; million of low - income household force into insecure , unaffordable and far too often substandard private rent housing ; and , to our shame as a nation , just shy of 160 , 000 homeless child live right now in temporary accommodation . our economy and the public service that our constituent rely on be also suffer , because as well as blight countless life , the housing crisis be consume ever large amount of public money in the form of a rapidly rise housing benefit bill . it be also hamper economic growth and productivity by reduce labour mobility and undermine the capacity of our great town and city to realise their full economic potential . the Government be under no illusion about the scale of the task before we or the challenge that must be overcome and the pitfall avoid if we be to succeed . but we be absolutely determined to tackle this crisis head on . the previous Government , of course , take a different view . not only do they fail to meet , even once , the target of 300 , 000 home a year that they set themselves , but in a forlorn attempt to appease their anti - house building back Benchers , they consciously and deliberately choose to exacerbate the housing crisis by make change to national planning policy that have contribute to plummet housing supply . we know that the change require to start put thing right will be uncomfortable for some . we know we will face resistance from vested interest . but this Labour Government will not duck the hard choice that must be confront to tackle the housing crisis , because the alternative be a future in which a decent , safe , secure and affordable home be a privilege enjoy only by some , rather than be the birthright of all work people . let I turn to the change that we be make to the framework . we receive more than 10 , 000 response to our consultation , alongside which my official and I have hold extensive engagement with private house builder , affordable housing provider , local authority and other organisation from the sector . the view share with we have be invaluable in help to refine our initial proposal so that we be able to introduce an effective package of reform . before I set out a number of important area in which we have make change , let I touch briefly on some of the proposal that we intend to implement unamended . first , we have reverse the anti - supply change introduce by the last government almost exactly a year ago . from the abandonment of mandatory housing target to the softening of land supply and delivery test provision , the policy that give local authority the freedom to plan for less housing than their nominal target imply be no more . secondly , we have make explicit the importance of growth support development , from lab to data centre , to supply chain and logistic . in the same vein , we have make clear that the default position for renewable energy deployment should be yes . thirdly , we strongly promote mixed tenure development , reflect robust evidence that attest to the fact that such development build out fast and create diverse community . fourthly , we have make a series of change to bolster affordable housing delivery and enable local authority to determine the right mix of affordable housing for their community . that will support our commitment to deliver the big increase in social and affordable house building in a generation . there be four important area where we have refine our proposal , and I will turn first to housing target . as we make clear when launch the consultation in July , restore a mandatory standard method for assess housing need be insufficient if the method itself be not up to the job . as the House will know , we propose a bold change , increase the total annual national target from 300 , 000 to 370 , 000 , end the reliance on decade - old population projection , and remove the arbitrary 35 % urban uplift that result in a skewed national distribution that be disproportionately focus on London to the detriment of the rest of the country . we fully intend to maintain the level of ambition outline in July , but we hear through the consultation a clear view that we should do more to target housing growth in those place where affordability pressure be most acute . we have therefore make the method more responsive to demand , redistribute housing target towards those place where housing be least affordable , while maintain the overall target envelope . next , let I turn to our reform to the green belt . as the House know , ours be a brownfield - first approach to development . as a result of a number of target change we be make to the framework , and our proposal for a brownfield passport , we be prioritise and fast - track building on previously develop urban land wherever possible , but we know that there be simply not enough site on brownfield land register to deliver the volume of home that the country need each year , let alone enough that be viable and in the right location . in the summer , we propose that local authority take a sequential approach to release land to meet their housing need : brownfield first , follow by low - quality land in the green belt and only then higher - perform land . to identify low - perform site we propose a definition of grey - belt land that reflect the fact that there be area currently designate as green belt that contribute little by way of aesthetic , public access or ecological value . that approach receive broad support through the consultation , but a strong desire be express to limit the room for subjectivity . we have therefore set out a clear description of how to assess whether land meet the definition of grey belt , and we will be provide further guidance to local authority in the new year to support they with green - belt review . at the centre of our green - belt reform lie our golden rule , which be design to make sure that where green - belt land be release , the public derive real benefit from development on it , include more affordable housing to meet local need . in the consultation , we propose a flat 50 % affordable housing target , but we recognise that because land value vary across the country , the limited use of viability assessment should be permit . through the consultation , we have recognise that that approach risk uncertainty . if flexibility be need in some part of the country because land value be low , the precise amount of affordable housing to be secure would become a protract site - by - site negotiation . if a local authority do not allow flexibility , there would be a risk that site be render unviable , with the result that no house , affordable or otherwise , would get build . our final policy therefore take a different approach to manage variation in land value . rather than a single 50 % target , we be introduce a 15 percentage point premium on top of target set in local plan , up to a maximum of 50 % . because that mean the target itself will be responsive to local circumstance , we will be restrict the ability for site - specific viability assessment until such time as we have amend viability guidance in the spring of next year . by prioritise pragmatism over purity , the golden rule we be put in place today will give community the confidence that they will be meet and will maximise the number of affordable home deliver across the country . another area where we have make change be to the presumption in favour of sustainable development . the presumption sit at the heart of the national planning policy framework and mean that where a local authority have under - deliver or an up - to - date local plan be not in place , the balance of decision making be tilt in favour of approval . we be determined to ensure that where the presumption apply , it will have real tooth . at the same time , we be clear that development consent through it must be consistent with the clear requirement in national policy relate to sustainability , density , design and the provision of affordable home . the change we have make deliver on both those front . finally , in the consultation we seek view on how our change apply to local authority at an advanced stage of plan make . our propose transitional arrangement aim to strike a balance between maintain the progress of plan at more advanced stage of preparation , while maximise proactive planning for the home our community need . the core of our proposal — that we only hold back a draft plan where there be a significant gap between the current propose housing requirement and the new housing target — be well support . however , we be make three change . first , we have take on board concern that the transitional period be too tight , so we will provide local planning authority with an extra two month to progress their plan , extend the transitional period from one month to three . secondly , and again respond to an ask we hear repeatedly from council , the transitional arrangement will apply where the draft housing requirement in the plan meet at least 80 % of local housing need , rather than the numerical 200 home threshold we originally propose . in those instance , the plan will not be hold back . thirdly , where plan be adopt under these arrangement , and where there be exist plan base on the old target due to run for a number of year yet , we want to see the level of ambition raise soon rather than later . as a result , from 1 July 2026 , we will expect authority with plan adopt under the old standard method to provide an extra year ' s worth of home in their housing pipeline , help to accelerate the delivery of new home . we recognise that we be ask much from many local authority , and we be determined to support local leader try in good faith to deliver home for their community . that be why across dedicated local plan funding , the planning capacity and capability support announce at the Budget and income from raise fee , we will be inject more than £ 100 million into the system in the come year . we be confident that the revise framework that we be introduce today will support significantly high rate of house building and sustain economic growth . we have listen carefully to the view express in the consultation and adjust several area of policy accordingly ; now it be for other to do their part . developer must turn supportive word into action , bring forward new site and build they out at pace . local authority must embrace the challenge of high target and push for more and well development in their area . we have move fast . we have not hold back . we have not shy away from controversial decision , or waver in the face of those who have seek to chip away at our resolve . with focus and determination , we have push on to ensure that we be put in place a planning system gear toward meet housing need in full and unleash economic growth . Change will take time as home be not build overnight and our dire inheritance mean that the climb out of the trough we be in will be a steep one , but by implement this revise framework today , we have take another decisive step toward a future in which everyone will enjoy a decent , safe , secure and affordable home in which to live . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . first , I welcome the ambitious target of 1 . 5 million home in this Parliament . I think he may have unintentionally mislead the House regard the " dire inheritance " that he claim . conservative Members be rightly proud of our record on housing delivery . [ interruption . ] really . between 2013 and 2023 , we see a record level of new housing formation , great than any other period since the 1960 . we deliver 550 , 000 affordable home since 2010 , include 63 , 000 in 2022 - 23 alone . what we do not welcome be the war on rural England that the Minister be pursue . follow on from the family farm tax and the withdrawal of the rural service delivery grant , we now see a massive shift to mass house building in rural area and on green belt . we do not welcome the bulldozing of democratic accountability . we do not welcome the lowering of housing target for urban area , include a 20 % reduction in London , which be already miss its target by 50 % . we also do not welcome an average doubling — a 100 % increase — for predominantly rural area . the reality for local resident in area such as Westmorland , Cumberland , North Yorkshire and the home county be that they will one day wake up to realise that they will face target of up to 600 % increase . they will call their local councillor to ask they to oppose a specific application and be shock at the response , which will be , " I be sorry ; we no long have the right to vote against an individual application . " they will be even more shocked if they become aware of what Labour say in opposition . its Opposition motion on 21 June 2021 call on the previous Government to " protect the right of community to object to individual planning application . " the Minister be now take that away . local resident will be more shocked again when they become aware that the Minister himself use that right in 2021 to object to an application for 1 , 500 home on a brownfield site in his constituency . indeed , the Secretary of State also use that right to object to a development in her constituency in 2017 . same old labour : do as I say , not as I do . the reality be that the Government will fail to deliver on their target . member need not listen to I ; they should listen to the chief executive officer of Homes England , who admit in a leak email that it be a two - Parliament objective rather than deliverable in this Parliament . the Centre for Cities and the Office for Budget Responsibility have both say that only 1 . 1 million home will be deliver in England in this Parliament , and indeed there will be only 1 . 3 million home across the UK , which be low than we deliver in the last Parliament — another broken promise from Labour . as the Leader of the opposition say , we will be there for the Minister and the Secretary of State when they fail to deliver on that promise . this planning framework push development to rural area , concrete over green belt , green field and over our green and pleasant land , rather than focus and support building in urban area where we need to build the most . and to what end ? due to the loosening of restriction on visa requirement such as the salary threshold , and the scrapping of the Rwanda deterrent , the majority of the home that the Government deliver will be require for people come into this country rather than for british citizen . Labour have also consistently fail on affordable home . under the London Labour Mayor , new affordable housing in London be down by 88 % , yet across England , the Conservative Government deliver more than half a million home . they have already weaken their requirement for 50 % affordable home on the green belt by allow the use of viability assessment . that change will mean few affordable home . the Labour Government have already fail first - time buyer . the Conservative Government double the number of those buy every year compare with 2010 , by mean of the stamp duty discount , help to buy , right to buy and our affordable home programme — some of which help the Secretary of State herself get on the housing ladder . those have be axe by this socialist Government pull up the housing ladder . they will build over rural area while claim it be grey belt land , but we deliver over 1 million home in the last Parliament alone . it be vital more than ever that we build in the right place with the right infrastructure , but the Prime Minister have already admit that he will bulldoze through the concern of local community . if the Government really want home to be build where they be need , they must think again . finally , how many of the Minister ' s 1 . 5 million home will be affordable ? what do he expect will be the split for social rent , affordable rent and affordable home to purchase , particularly give the use of viability assessment ? on planning capacity , will he set out why his resourcing of planning authority , which we broadly welcome , have rise from £ 20 million in his manifesto , to £ 46 million in the Budget , to £ 100 million today ? how be that consistent with the Budget ? why be he deliberately make it more difficult for first - time buyer to buy a home ? what percentage of the 1 . 5 million target do he expect will be need for immigrant household ? I thank the hon . gentleman for some of his response , and for those question . I be glad that he broadly support the Government ' s target of 1 . 5 million home . as he will know , the previous Government do not achieve their target — 300 , 000 home a year when disaggregate — once in 14 year . there be so many inaccuracy and mislead statement in that response , and a fundamental misunderstanding of the framework that we have plan , that I be not sure where to start . the assertion that we be wage war on rural England or that we have distribute housing target predominantly towards rural area be simply wrong . we be focus — [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman might wish to listen to the response and focus on the detail of the framework that we have publish . we be focus growth across our city region . housing need across mayoral combine authority area will increase by over 20 % compare with the current standard method . similarly , on the green belt , it be not the case that we be allow viability assessment — I be very clear in my statement . we be restrict the use of site - level viability assessment on green belt release until we have refresh viability planning policy guidance in the new year , at which point we will consider exemption for previously develop land and large site . we prioritise the importance of up - to - date local plan . we inherit a system from the previous Government of less than a third up - to - date local plan coverage . that be unsustainable . we want community more involve at an early stage , shape their local plan . that be the good way that they can shape development . the hon . Gentleman mischaracterise our work paper proposal on plan committee ; as we discuss at length in the urgent question early in the week , we be simply talk about streamline the planning system to ensure that train , professional planning officer take the appropriate decision , and elect member get to focus on the large and most controversial application . I be not go to respond to the taunt about site in my constituency . why not ? because I have outline my position many , many time before . I object to a 1 , 500 - home scheme that I think be poor quality — I think we could do well . it be very interesting , I note to Opposition Members , that consent for that be give many year ago , but not a spade have be put in the ground . that be the type of speculative development we need to see less of . we need more plan development through the planning system . I will briefly answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question . we can not put a precise number on the proportion of home under the 1 . 5 million target that will be affordable for the follow reason . we expect to see many more social and affordable home come through developer contribution . our golden rule , which apply to the release of land through the green belt , will ensure that the proportion rise — that 15 % premium on local affordable housing rate . as the hon . Gentleman will be aware , affordable provision be partly relate to grant funding from Government . we will set out detail of future investment in next year ' s multi - year spending review , along with what the successor to the affordable home programme look like and the precise split between social rent home and other form of tenure . we have be very clear that we want to maximise the delivery of social value home . detail on planning capacity will be set out in the response to the consultation . the £ 100 million figure I cite be the amount of support in the round go into local plan support , planning capacity and capability support and other thing . on migration , the hon . Gentleman know as well as I do that the majority of home that developer sell in this country be to british national ; that most part of the country have local allocation rule and residency requirement that mean that non - british national can not access housing ; and that only those who be eligible for no recourse to public fund can do so . he know those rule . it be scaremongere ; it be beneath he . I know that the hon . Gentleman do not really believe that , and that the House do not believe that either . I call the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . I welcome the great detail on the change to the NPPF that the Minister have outline this morning . he be right : we have to be bold . as he have outline , the social housing sector be in crisis . at the Select Committee ' s recent evidence session , he mention a figure of around 160 , 000 child in temporary accommodation . those child will be spend this Christmas away from their friend and family . for the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , the shadow Secretary of State to reduce this issue to migration be wrong . he should think about the many child who will be sleep rough this Christmas . this be about how we improve housing and ensure that we build the right housing to help those child . we need more social housing to get people off our waiting list . our council be at break point , with some developer use the viability clause as a way of not deliver on the much - need affordable home that they have promise . community must be able to trust the planning process . will the Minister assure the House that local council will see a significant increase in the affordable home programme next year to allow they to meet the Government ' s housing target ? secondly , I want to touch briefly on the land classification outline in the strategy , which could affect the way in which community be able to shape local development . too often we see a disproportionate impact on high - end development , which do nothing to help people to get on the housing ladder . be the Minister confident that the update to the NPPF will ensure that new home will be base in improve development with amenity such as school , GP surgery and other accessible thing , so that local resident can see tangible benefit in the development come forward in their area ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for those question and for her broad support for the framework we have announce today . on social rent housing in particular , she be absolutely right . the previous Conservative Government ' s record on social rent home be absolutely dire . the figure speak for themselves . not only do they fail to deliver new social affordable home beyond anything more than 10 , 000 unit a year , but they engineer the decline of social housing and run down our stock through various intervention , include the slashing of affordable home programme funding and increase generosity in the right - to - buy discount , which my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister do not benefit from . we have return the discount to the rate at which she access housing . the Conservatives ' record on social rent housing speak for itself . on future investment in affordable housing and social rent home , as I have say , we will set out detail in the multi - year spending review next year . we want to prioritise the delivery of social rent home give the important role they play in address the housing crisis , and in resolve the particularly acute end of that crisis in the form of temporary accommodation . on the NPPF more widely , I can give my hon . friend those assurance . the target change to the framework we have make today will support the delivery of infra - structure . as I have already say , when it come to the release of green - belt land , our golden rule will ensure that we get a high proportion of affordable housing , and also infrastructure and amenity and access to green space through that additional public benefit . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Liberal Democrats support the provision of new home . Somerset West and Taunton district council in my constituency , under Liberal Democrat control since 2019 , have approve thousand of new home to the extent that the town be now one of the fast - grow in the UK , with 9 % population growth to 2021 , partly because it be such a wonderful place to live . somerset be now pioneer the first new council house in a generation in part of the county , many of they zero carbon . we welcome the policy change on renewable energy and the extension in the transitional arrangement , although I urge the Minister to consider , in exceptional circumstance , a six - month transition rather than three month . I know that member on several Benches wish to see that on behalf of their authority . trust in the planning system , like trust in politic , be not where it should be . as with bypassing planning committee , impose housing number on council take decision out of the hand of elect councillor and local people , which be undemocratic . we would reverse that . trust in planning demand that people know that our most precious green space be fully protect . every authority should have the same level of green belt protection , plus precious green wedge and green space in their area . rather than whitehall diktat , plan for new home should be lead by community and our council , and those home should be genuinely affordable to local people . council such as Eastleigh have show that where those new home come with job , school and public transport , community consent follow . we will not solve the crisis in care , for example , unless we have the home for old and vulnerable people , support by the GP surgery and care service they require . if any target be to be mandatory , therefore , it should be our country ' s need for 150 , 000 new social home per year and for low - cost home ownership through option such as rent to buy to give people a real foot on the ladder . that should be fund from capital borrowing , just as Labour Governments and , historically , Liberal government fund our stock of council house in the past , include the use of compulsory purchase , before Conservative government sell they off hand over fist until soon there will be almost none leave . top - down planning diktat risk a surge in speculative greenfield permission of the kind that the Minister be concern about , for home that be out of people ' s reach . instead , let we fund , incentivise and focus on the social and affordable home that we need : zero - carbon home that tread lightly on the land , restore nature and in do so restore trust in local people and the councillor whom they elect to take the decision that most affect they and their community . I be not sure I detect a question there , but there be several point . I will endeavour to respond to at least a few of they . I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s broad support for the framework and , in particular , for renewable energy deployment . on the charge that we be bypass local democracy and local community , I refute that entirely . we be encouraging , in the way that the previous Government do , the adoption of up - to - date local plan that be the good mean of shape development in any particular part of the country . that be where local people and community can get involve to determine what development look like and where it go , but it must be a conversation about what development look like and where it go , rather than whether it happen at all . under the current system , as a result of the NPPF change in December 2023 and the fact that we have less than a third up - to - date plan coverage , there be too much speculative development outside of plan , which community be rightly take issue with . on social rent home , as I have say to the hon . Gentleman previously , until he come up with a less vague way of funding 150 , 000 social rent home , we simply can not take the point seriously . the Liberal Democrats get away with have no housing spending total in their election manifesto . I applaud the ambition , but we take a more realistic path to boost social and affordable home , put forward only what we know we can deliver within the spending constraint that we face . lastly , I absolutely agree with the hon . Gentleman that we need to reform how CPO work . we be take forward the discretionary power to disapply hope value that the previous Government take through — I commend they for do that in the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 . we need that power test , but we need to go far and we intend to do so in the forthcoming planning and infrastructure Bill . follow 14 year of neglect , indifference and , at time , downright obstruction by the Conservatives , housing in Newcastle be the no . 1 issue that constituent bring to I , and my inbox be full of heartrende story of family unable to put a roof over their child ' s head . I therefore welcome the statement , and look forward to work with Newcastle city council to build the home that my constituent need so much . will the Minister explain in a bit more detail how he will ensure that these home be of the quality that my constituent deserve , and that the necessary infrastructure , particularly school , will be build alongside they ? my hon . friend be right . the Conservatives can try to scrub the record all they like , but it speak for itself . the so - call planning concern group in the last Parliament persuade the previous Government to make change to the national planning policy that allow local area to plan for few home than their target require . that have lead to a rush of plan come in " under number " , some of which we will have to undo through change in the framework . as I have say , we be make target change to the framework to support the delivery of infrastructure provision . the Government also support essential infrastructure , especially in the area that be most unaffordable , through a range of spending programme . on infrastructure - lead development and quality , support by our framework change in the presumption for saleable development , we be determined that there be not a rush to 1 . 5 million regardless of what the unit look like . they must be well design , quality unit , with the infrastructure , amenity and service that community need in order to thrive . I call Gagan Mohindra , a member of the Select Committee . as the Minister will know , Three Rivers district council , which have be control by the Liberal Democrats for many year , do not have an up - to - date local plan , and there be already a presumption for development . what would the Minister say to council that either choose not to have a local plan or be unable to meet the housing target ? the hon . Gentleman ' s point be well make . we be determined to drive up the coverage of up - to - date local plan . we want universal coverage : that be the way to secure sustainable development in which community can have confidence because they have be able to shape it . when area refuse to engage , we will take appropriate action . today we be set a 12 - week deadline for local authority to give we a timetable detail how they intend to put local plan in place , through various measure relate to the transitional arrangement , and how the new six - year housing land supply will bite . we think we can incentivise authority to come forward and put those plan in place . where they do not do so , however , we will not hesitate to use the full range of ministerial intervention power at our disposal . the last Government introduce deadline and let they slip repeatedly , but we will not make the same mistake . we will ensure that up - to - date local plan be put in place so that we end the speculative out - of - plan development that , as I say , community across the country be rightly take issue with . I call Joe Powell , another Select Committee member . I welcome the statement and especially welcome what the Minister say about affordable home , give the dismal number that be provide under the Conservatives . those 1 . 3 million people on the waiting list deserve a voice in our planning system too , and I only wish the opposition would recognise that . what approach will the Minister take when there be multiple local plan , for example the London plan and the London borough plan ? how will the target be work out between those different plan ? as my hon . friend may know , the new method produce a figure for London of nearly 88 , 000 . that be more than double recent delivery , and it constitute the big propose percentage increase against delivery in any region in the country by a significant margin . we expect London to step up and improve its housing delivery record . as for my hon . friend ' s specific question , it will be for London and the Mayor to consider how the aggregate local housing number be distribute across the whole of London . because there be a spatial plan in the form of the London plan , the target for individual London borough need to be view in that context . the same can not be say for other part of the country . I call another member of the Select Committee . nothing in this statement outline the new power for council to build development infrastructure — include road , school and GP surgery — before new housing . what power will my local council of Broxbourne and East Hertfordshire get to build development infrastructure before these massive housing target be force upon they ? local authority be already require to put in place plan for infrastructure delivery , and to set out how that infrastructure be fund and should come forward . we have make a number of target change to the framework today , to support the delivery of infrastructure . that will not be not the last word on our reform to the housing and planning system , and we be consider what more we can do to ensure that we get infrastructure for development up front , in the way that community want . one in four bark household be privately rent , which be high than the national average , and 40 % of resident be homeowner , which be 20 % below the national average . the number of people in temporary accommodation be through the roof because of the housing crisis . my constituent will welcome the Government ' s step to address the housing crisis . viability and land value consideration often hold up shovel - ready development scheme , which then can not be build . the six infrastructure commitment that the Government have make since the general election be critical . can the Minister give assurance that the Government will deliver infrastructure to ensure that land value increase , viability be meet , and home can be build ? my hon . friend make a good point . viability be stall development in lot of area in the country . we need to look at what support can be put in place for particular scheme — our new home accelerator , for example , be provide planning capacity support and other form of support — and at why some scheme , particularly consent or near - consent large scheme , be be hold up . as I have say before in the House , we be give further thought to how we examine these issue , and to what more we can do to ensure that consent scheme be build out in good time . this centrally drive intervention drive a coach and horse through green belt area such as Aldridge - Brownhills and through local democracy . how will the Minister ensure that local community be respect and have a voice , so that we build the right home in the right place ? I return to a point that I have make several time during this statement . the onus be on local community and elect leader to put in place up - to - date local plan that shape where development be to take place . I know from previous conversation with the right hon . Lady that she want brownfield - first development — so do we . we have put in the framework publish today a number of target change to support the delivery of brownfield site . we have also consult , through a work paper soft consultation , on proposal for a brownfield passport to far accelerate and fast - track brownfield development . local area can look to bring forward and densify brownfield site . however , in response to the point that there be not enough such site , or that community can not work across boundary with neighbouring authority , we be say , " please look at the release of low - quality land within the green belt . " I salute my hon . friend ' s energy for and commitment to these target . it be great to see that they be support by the Prime Minister . the Environmental Audit Committee be look at the new planning framework and its environmental consequence . I be pleased that , since the original consultation , there have be change to strengthen environmental protection . can my hon . friend say a little more about how he will ensure that nature be not the victim of his passionate commitment ? Brownfield site be often very biodiverse , and try to achieve the biodiversity net gain alongside all the other commitment simply mean that they be not profitable . how will he ensure that those site can be bring forward viably by both the private and public sector ? I thank the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee . he be right : we have make a number of change to the framework to far strengthen reference to climate mitigation and adaptation . we have make a number of other change relate to flood risk and sustainable drainage system , and how we can support those through the planning system . on BNG specifically , I be more than happy to have a detailed conversation about our thinking on how to successfully roll out BNG across the country and ensure that it work not just on large site , but on small site in particular . in his statement , the Minister refer to the undermining of the capacity of our great town and city to realise their economic potential . do he not realise that by effectively absolve the Mayor of London of his housing responsibility , he be exacerbate the problem of inner - London borough , such as Lewisham and , dare I say , Greenwich and Woolwich , use the green field of Kent as a dumping ground for their housing problem ? we be fight a rearguard action to protect our farmland from development , in the interest of our countryside and , more importantly perhaps , of sustainability . he refer to brownfield site . what he have announce today be the undermining of the Secretary of State ' s right to rule finally on planning issue after they have be to the Planning Inspectorate . she will now have no credibility at all . I have a lot of time for the right hon . Gentleman , but I think that sort of hyperbole be beneath he , if I may say so . we be not absolve the Mayor of London of his responsibility . the previous Government put in place a system whereby the arbitrary 35 % urban uplift apply not merely to the core of a city region — as it do in every other part of the country — but to every London borough . that produce a fantastical figure that be completely divorce from reality . we have abolish that urban uplift and reset the standard method . that still leave London with an incredibly stretching target of 88 , 000 home per year , which be more than double recent delivery . we want to work in partnership with the Mayor of London , but we will be push he to increase his ambition for what can be achieve in London , and his delivery . we place great importance on agricultural land and food production . the national planning policy framework remain clear that where significant development of agricultural land be demonstrate to be necessary , area of poor - quality land should be prefer to those of high quality . those protection remain in the framework . rise — order . thirty - five colleague be bob , but the question and answer be get long . can we please keep they short ? on the Wirral , our housing shortage leave thousand on waiting list . the issue go far , with child and grandchild have to leave the area to get on the housing ladder . we want to build quality , affordable house in the right place . we share the Government ' s approach to building on brownfield first , so what step can the Department take to support Wirral council in achieve that ? I refer my hon . friend to my previous answer on our target change to the framework to strengthen expectation around brownfield development . we be in the early stage of a consultation , through the work paper , on proposal for a brownfield passport , and we be explore how we can go far to prioritise and fast - track the development of that land . we absolutely want to work with local area to look at where brownfield site might be densifie and at how we can get the majority of development through that route , where possible . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . Mid Sussex district council have a local plan , and it be well advanced in make its next local plan , which , significantly , have cross - party support from Conservative , Green and labour councillor . we also have a design guide , and be deliver 1 , 000 house a year , include 300 social and affordable home last year . we be an example of what good planning look like . we be even purchase our own temporary accommodation . I invite the Minister to come to Mid Sussex and see for himself what good planning look like . I think a yes or no will suffice , Minister . I be afraid that I can not give either , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I will add the invitation to the list of request for visit that I receive from member across the House . however , I commend the hon . Lady ' s local authority for its focus on quality and good design . we want to see more of that across the country . I declare my interest as a vice - president of the Local Government Association . I welcome the commitment to overall house building target — we can not hit a national target with clear local target . I welcome in particular the commitment to social housing . will the Minister confirm that that mean social housing , not the affordable housing that the shadow Minister mention ? there be a big difference there . the viability of brownfield site be low and section 106 contribution will be low , so if we be to concentrate on brownfield site , will the Minister make the point to the Chancellor that to deliver social housing in the number need , she might have to reconsider the amount of social housing grant that she provide ? my hon . friend have real expertise in this area . we be make a distinction between social rent home — the most affordable type of affordable housing — and other , and we have seek to express that through a change to the glossary in the framework that separate social rent housing from other form of housing . he be right that brownfield delivery involve additional challenge . we be very cognisant of those , and we be explore how the variety of Government fund that support the delivery of brownfield site might be improve as we go forward . the Minister have allude to one of the challenge with planning permission — namely that , on any one day , there be something like 1 million unbuilt permission for new housing . developer ration the supply in order to keep the price high , so will he consider , as I think he do in opposition , the principle of " use it or lose it " ? at the moment a developer will get a permission , which be repeatedly sell on until viability mean the site can not be develop . if the planning permission be either bring forward or lose if they be not use in time , we could get the house and home that people want . the hon . Gentleman , like my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , have great expertise in this area . he will know that local authority already have power to issue a completion notice to require a developer to complete a stall development . to bring great transparency and accountability to this area , we seek to go far by take the necessary step to implement build - out reporting . I assure he that I be give a lot of attention to what more we might do on build - out , because developer have make commitment to increase the pace of build - out across the country . we need to make sure they follow through with that . with an example of a short question , I call Barry Gardiner . I congratulate my hon . friend the Minister on his statement and , in particular , on the importance he place on the presumption in favour of sustainability and get the design of development right . my hon . friend be a champion for the natural world , and I be aware that he be sympathetic to the need to include biodiversity measure in all new build , such as swift brick , which be an essential nesting habitat for the survival and recovery of cavity - nest bird . will he provide this much - need boost for a decline population that have sadly be place on the critically endanger red list ? will he ensure that these simple requirement be not only in the NPPF but be translate into the national development management policy to ensure they have statutory weight ? my hon . friend will be pleased to know that we have add text to the NPPF to encourage the incorporation of feature to protect threatened specie , include swift , but also bat and hedgehog . we will consult on the ndmp in the spring of next year . the town of Wimborne in my Mid Dorset and North Poole constituency have double in size , with new home build on three side right up to the Stour . these home be pretty much out of reach for local people , and they come with no infrastructure . shop be suppose to be include in one development , but the developer claim it could not get they fill , so now we have another care home . meanwhile , Aldi have make a planning application for a green - belt site to which everyone will need to drive . what can the Minister do to force developer to deliver the infrastructure they promise , so that developer can not play the system ? there be measure in the framework that will help to achieve the objective that we both seek . the Government be also commit to strengthen the exist system of developer contribution , so that we hold applicant to the promise they make as part of section 106 agreement , while arm council to well negotiate with they in the first place . Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole council submit its draft local plan for examination in July but , under the new target , it have plan for only 53 % of its housing need . can my hon . friend elaborate on the step the Government will take to work with local authority area at this stage to make sure they fill that significant gap ? in the formal Government response to the consultation , which will be publish at the end of this statement , we set out very clearly how we be deal with local authority at an advanced stage of plan preparation — both those that will meet the regulation 19 stage requirement and those that will not — and how we will help those with up - to - date plan to top up their housing supply so that they come close to the new standard method . I share my hon . friend ' s wish that her local authority take step to close the gap . will the Minister reaffirm the principle of " infrastructure first " in order to get home build ? in tendring and Colchester , we be plan to build a 9 , 000 - home border community project , but it can go ahead only if the A1331 be complete , and it have to be fund . I support that objective , but I gently say that the previous Government have 14 year to address concern in this area . I remember repeat call from Conservative Members at the time that the previous Government should get serious about this . we will . there be measure in the framework that support infrastructure delivery , but there be more work to do . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . last week , I meet my constituent Mr Anwar Hussain , who live with his wife and five child in a two - bedroom house . doctor have tell he that his eight - year - old autistic daughter need her own bedroom . Mr Hussain tell I that he have be on emergency banding for a large house with more bedroom for two year , and he be still wait . do my hon . friend agree that we desperately need to improve our social housing , and can he please confirm that the Government ' s plan will help people such as Mr Hussain ? that question sit slightly outside the framework , although , as I say , there be target change to support the delivery of new affordable home . my hon . friend be absolutely right that we have to do more about the decency of the exist social housing stock . we will be consult on a new decent home standard in the new year , as well as introduce Awaab ' s law to clamp down on the most severe hazard . labour ' s new housing target for Harborough be a 40 % increase , and the target for Oadby and Wigston have double . yet we can see that the overcrowding problem be bad in urban area , and the gap between population growth and housing growth be bad in those area , too . we can see the environmental argument , too . however , the Minister have announce today that the new target for London be about 11 % low than the old one . in the original round of number , Nottingham be down 21 % , Birmingham and Leicester be down 31 % , and Coventry be down 50 % . can he tell I what the number be now for those midland city ? be they all still go down , even as the target for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston be go up ? I think the hon . Gentleman slightly misunderstand the situation for urban authority . the housing target be go up across metro area . what about the city ? I have be very clear about this . we have drop the arbitrary 35 % uplift introduce by the previous Government , which bear no relation to housing need . Metro area target be go up . the hon . Gentleman will find out from the specific target , which have be produce by our redistribution of the formula within that envelope , what the new number be for his two local authority . I listen to the Minister on the radio this morning and I listen to his statement , and I welcome his comprehensive step to tackle the housing crisis . while I work with colleague across the House — Opposition member know that — I think the shadow Minister ' s speech be beneath he . it be the kind of gutter politic we should not be engage in . as we seek to tackle the crisis , we must do thing with people , not to they . I gently say to the Minister that communication and engagement will be vital to get this right . I invite he to confirm from the Dispatch Box , for constituent in Newcastle - under - Lyme , that productive agricultural land will not be the default in his brownfield - first approach to development . as I make clear in my response to the shadow Minister , our approach to agricultural land remain the same . ours be a brownfield - first approach . we want to maximise delivery on brownfield first , wherever possible . only when that type of delivery can not come forward — where brownfield site can not be densifie , or where cross - boundary strategic co - operation of the kind we intend to introduce be not possible — will we ask local authority to review their green belt , with a view to identify and release the low - quality , most poorly perform land within it . the hon . Gentleman be a thoughtful and diligent Minister who share my disdain for the identikit , soulless , ubiquitous housing estate that have be build during his lifetime and mine . I welcome the NPPF ' s commitment to design code that provide " a local framework for create beautiful and distinctive place " . will he write to every local authority to make it clear that design be a key planning determinant , and be absolutely salient ? will he also write to the Planning Inspectorate to ensure that , when local authority turn down an application on the basis of poor design , the inspectorate will back they up ? well - design place remain at the heart of planning policy ; as the right hon . Gentleman will know , an entire chapter of the NPPF remain devoted to well - design place . the change we be make to the presumption today will ensure that when it come to national policy on design , those expectation need to hold in the balance of decision that the Planning Inspectorate make . there be much more we can do outside of policy . in the new year , my Department will bring forward update to the national design guide and national model design code . as part of those change , we will make clear our expectation about what local authority can do to improve the quality of design . I call Chris Curtis , who I should have call early as a member of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee — my apology . that be okay . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . thank to the failure of the conservative party , over 150 , 000 child will be wake up on Christmas day in temporary accommodation . if that be a record to be proud about , I have absolutely no idea what would make Opposition member feel any shame . may I get two reassurance from the Minister ? first , business need certainty , so will he assure I that we will not see the chopping and change we see from the conservative party and that we will stick by the policy ? secondly , the issue be not just about the planning rule but about capacity in our local council , so what will he do to speed up the process of get more planner into our local council to add capacity to the system ? we need consistency in national policy . we have too many change to the national planning policy framework under previous government . we intend this to be the big change in term of substantial policy development . there will come a point next year when we will look to consult on ndmp , and we will have to make change to the framework to account for the evolution of those . as I say , today ' s statement set out the big change we intend to make , and we want they to hold and to be deliver through this Parliament . on local planning capacity and capability , I make reference in my statement to the £ 100 million of funding that be be inject into the system , in particular as part of the transitional arrangement to help local authority that will fall foul of the requirement set out in the new framework today . as a former house builder , I know some of the challenge about viability . I welcome the Minister and the Government ' s focus on affordable housing target and viability assessment , but there be a basic mathematical calculation about affordable housing : 20 % of something be well and more than 50 % of nothing . the hon . Gentleman make a somewhat cryptic statement . perhaps the point he be drive at be relate to golden rule . one of the change we have make that put pragmatism above purity be drop the straight 50 % requirement across the country , and look at how we can get more locally sensitive rate by put in place a 15 percentage point premium on local affordable housing target . in the round , we think that will provide more certainty and maximise the delivery of home come through that route . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . Cherwell district council ' s housing waiting list quadruple over the past decade under the Conservatives , which be why I commit to my constituent in Banbury during the general election campaign that I would make address the housing crisis a priority . we all recognise that planning reform , which the conservative party duck during its time in office , be crucial to fix the housing crisis , but do the Minister agree that it be also crucial to help we get the growth that we want in our economy , because it be good for business , whether they be sandwich shop or high - tech engineering firm , across the country ? my hon . friend be right that the situation we be in , with an acute and entrenched housing crisis and an ail planning system , be not just blight life but hold back our economy and the way our great town and city can maximise their potential . this be a growth - focus national planning policy framework , and we be very proud of it . order . unless question be keep short , colleague will not be able to get in , so think about everybody in the Chamber . I know that the Minister be a man of considerable integrity , so can he be honest with my constituent about the fact that the combination of mandatory target , a massive increase in those mandatory target and the fig leaf of the grey belt policy mean that in a constituency like mine , which be almost entirely green belt , apart from that which be develop on , there will be massive new development , an expansion of London sprawl and a change in the character of the area forever ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his compliment at the outset of his comment . I do not agree with he for the follow reason . we be not abolish the green belt but preserve it . we think it have play a hugely important role over recent decade , not least in check unregulated urban sprawl . on his constituency , I say to he gently that I do not know how he can know the definition of grey belt when we have just publish it . he do not know how much grey - belt land there be in his constituency , but in part of the country like his , the answer lie in cross - boundary strategic planning , so that we can sensibly plan for housing growth , rather than every local area have to account for those number on its own . as have already be mention , there be 1 . 3 million people on the social housing waiting list and there will be 150 , 000 kid in temporary accommodation this Christmas , but the number of under 30 who own their own home be half what it be in the last generation . do the Minister agree that it will take serious and sustained action over the course of this Parliament and beyond to turn that around ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . contrary to the crowing by the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) about the opposition ' s record on home ownership , the rate be stagnant and they be particularly bad for the young generation . we have a generation lock out of home ownership . we be take action in that area , not least through our plan to take forward a comprehensive and permanent mortgage guarantee scheme . one of the large contributory factor , although not the only one , at the heart of why housing be unaffordable , be our failure over many decade to build enough home of all tenure . go forward , the framework will support our target of 1 . 5 million new home . the Government have announce that housing target for Reigate and Banstead will increase significantly . we will move from an advisory target of 644 house per year to a mandatory and completely unrealistic target of 1 , 264 — a 96 % increase . a large proportion of my constituency be green belt . if all area must play their part in build the home we need , why be the Minister reduce housing target for London and other urban area , while increase they in rural area like mine ? I have make clear the point on urban area and how the 20 % increase across the board mean we be ask more of all part of the country . I say gently to the hon . Lady that she speak as if there be no housing pressure in her constituency . People want home in her constituency to rent or to buy as much as in any other part of the country . yes , the target be stretch but they be achievable , either through brownfield development from the release of low - quality grey - belt land within the green belt , or through cross - boundary strategic planning . represent a large and rural constituency , I be constantly contact by family who be concerned that member of their young generation be have to leave Northumberland to find the home they need . that be just one example of the conservative party ' s war on the countryside . will the Minister confirm that the new framework be the only way that we can get the home that be need , and one that be appropriate , into our rural community so that a generation be not force out of rural Britain ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . to be clear , the reform to the planning system that we be make today be not the only part of the answer ; delivery of home be an entirely different challenge from bring forward planning permission . we need to over - supply planning permission into the system to get the number of home we need in his constituency , and across the rest of the country . I write to the Secretary of State in November concerned about the impact on local authority , such as South Gloucestershire , that be at an advanced stage of bring forward plan to deliver much - need home . I welcome the extension of the transitional period , but I remain concerned that area whose figure have increase will be vulnerable to planning by appeal , while they get the new consent line up . will the Minister explain how authority that be do the right thing will be protect from their strategy be wreck by speculative application , while their plan go through the process for adoption ? I gently say to the hon . Lady that the expectation of have an up - to - date local plan in place be nothing new . authority have know for some time that they should be do that . it be a failure of the previous Government that they do not use the power at their disposal to ensure there be more up - to - date local plan coverage . those area that do not have up - to - date local plan in place will be vulnerable to development take place outside the plan process , but we be commit to support those who share our ambition and be work in good faith to get a plan in place to be able to do so . can the Minister set out how today ' s announcement will help our small and medium - sized enterprise house builder market and bring forward more site suitable for sme to develop ? there be more to be do in this area , and sme and small site can make a huge contribution to the 1 . 5 million home target . there be change that have be publish today in the framework that will help SME builder , not least the focus on mixed - tenure site that we know build out fast and where sme can play a big role go forward . the Minister intend to impose thousand more house on my constituency , when there be already not enough school place , not enough doctor and congested road . will he at least look at way in which financial arrangement can be establish that would mean that developer can be make to fund necessary infrastructure ahead of house building and sale , rather than wait for month and possibly year after completion ? as I have say , we be give a considerable amount of thought to what more we can do , in addition to the change be make today , to ensure that the right infrastructure come forward . I be happy to give the right hon . Gentleman ' s point serious consideration . the Minister know , because we have discuss this before , that my constituency of Dartford be already get on with the challenge of build new home . ebbsfleet garden city , the first garden city in a hundred year , aim to build 10 , 000 new home over the next decade , with 50 new park and open space , as well as a network of green corridor . I be delighted that the Minister have confirm he will be visit shortly . what more can we do to up the level of affordable and social housing in new development like Ebbsfleet so that everyone have the chance to live in they ? I look forward to my visit to Ebbsfleet , which be now build out at a fast rate than it be . we welcome its contribution . I have already reference the change we intend to make to strengthen the exist developer contribution system to get more out of section 106 agreement . there be more we can do in that area and , of course , through Government investment in affordable housing . we will bring forward more detail in the spending review next year . my constituency of Cheltenham be already build up to its boundary and be work with its neighbour on the joint local plan reference by the Minister , in part to deal with a housing waiting list of more than 2 , 500 bequeath to we by the last Government . we also have a big , sprawl town centre and plenty of empty space . what be the Minister ' s message to council that have that combination of challenge ? I be pleased that the hon . Gentleman ' s area be work in co - operation with its neighbour . as he know , we have in place a duty to co - operate ; it have not be particularly effective and we think we need to go far on strategic cross - boundary planning . to those part of the country that wish to densify their town centre , we fully support that and be open to any conversation in particular area about what more they think need to come forward to allow they to bring forward plan to rejuvenate town centre and bring more residential development back into they . he be always slightly out of my eyesight , but I call Martin Vickers . in reply to an early question , the Minister speak of streamline the planning system . in my 26 year as a councillor and 14 year in this House , I have hear successive government talk about streamline the planning system , by which they mean take more central control . it result in frustration among ward councillor , frustration among their constituent who feel that they be not able to participate properly and frustration for government because , in effect , they fail to meet their target , as I be sure this Government will . do the Minister accept that one way of involve local community , other than in the local plan , be to allow local councillor to work close with their community and have some influence over individual major development ? in that case , we would have well quality and the Government would meet their target a lot quick . where appropriate , local councillor , with advice from train planning officer , should of course have a say on major outline application . some of the proposal we be ask for view on — we be ask for nothing more than view at an early stage , on a work paper — be about ensure we get plan officer take the right decision use their expertise , with member focus on the large and most controversial development . I do not know if the hon . Gentleman have ever sit on a planning committee , but can he say , hand on heart , that every reserved matter application , as technical as some of they can be , should come to full planning committee ? we think there be way to streamline the system that do not involve the removal of local control and that adhere to the plan - lead system philosophy that we be take forward and value very much . I thank the Minister for his statement . across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , we clearly have an age population . I believe there be a desperate need for dedicated apartment for those in the over - 55 age group , which would free up home , as well as social housing , back into the market . will the Minister consider have discussion with colleague in the Cabinet and , I suggest , the Northern Ireland Assembly to secure funding for the over - 55 complex that be need not only in town but in rural area ? the previous Government , as the hon . Gentleman may know — again , I commend they for it — appoint an old people ' s housing taskforce " to look at option for the provision of great choice , quality and security of housing for old people . " that taskforce recently publish its report , with a series of recommendation that we be engage with . however , we need to give serious consideration as to how the planning system evolve to take into account demographic change that we know we need to adapt to . may I suggest to the Government that this subject really warrant a full - day debate and not just a statement with question and answer ? for now , however , may I ask about one straightforward matter ? will the Minister look carefully at the relatively small number of place , include East Hampshire , with a planning area that be part - in , part - out of a national park and at the case that housing target should be set separately for those two part of the planning area ? the right hon . Gentleman raise a very important point . there be local authority around the country where the boundary be such that they stray into area where environmental protection be in place , such as national park and other thing . local area will need to engage with the mandatory high housing target that we be bring forward when come up with local plan . those local plan will be test by the Planning Inspectorate to see whether there be hard constraint of the type he speak to and therefore whether a plan be sound on that basis . hard constraint will still be take into account in the development and examination of local plan . in an early answer , the Minister confirm that the Government support an infrastructure - first approach . will he work with colleague in the Treasury and the Department for Transport to ensure approval of A10 West Winch housing access road funding , which be essential to unlock thousand of home that be in the local plan on the edge of King ' s Lynn ? the hon . Gentleman ' s request have be put on the record and I will make sure that my ministerial colleague be make aware of it . I call the ever - patient Ben Obese - Jecty . the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister today launch the NPPF in my constituency of Huntingdon , at Alconbury Weald . however , that development be plan and build under the previous Government and phase 2 and 3 will see a further 4 , 000 home and significant brownfield development at scale , but it have nothing to do with the revise nppf . it be a shame the Deputy Prime Minister do not travel the extra couple of mile down to the Envar medical waste incinerator approve by the Minister on her behalf , against local wish , a couple of month ago . the Minister talk about guarantee infrastructure . when I ask the Government about a new east coast main line station to support the 6 , 500 home at Alconbury Weald , they fob I off with talk of an internal review . how will the NPPF unlock the infrastructure that large development desperately need ? I refer the hon . gentleman to my previous answer on that point . order . the Minister have be in the Chamber for well over an hour . he will no doubt recognise the strength of feeling towards this subject , because it have take so long to talk about build home . I will give member on the Front Bench a short moment to swap over very quickly for the next statement . qualification Reform Review with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will now make a statement on the outcome of the review of qualification reform at level 3 . the priority for this Government be to build a skill system that will drive forward opportunity and deliver the growth that our economy need . the post - 16 skill system in England that we inherit from the previous Government fail both of those test . in particular , the qualification landscape be too confusing and fail to provide the clear route to success that be need by learner and employer . we hear strong argument that the previous Government ' s plan to remove level 3 qualification and to limit the flexibility for school and college mean that they risk leave student with too little choice and too few opportunity . this year , we have pause the defunding of qualification and have undertake a review of the qualification that be set to have their funding remove , to see where we need to retain alternative qualification , such as apply general qualification or btec , and to consider how long we need to keep they in place . we undertake extensive stakeholder engagement , delve into the detail of qualification with employer representative body , college , practitioner , award organisation and industry expert . we recognise that certainty be very important to education provider , to student and to their parent and guardian . I reassure the House that our decision make the position clear up to 2027 . we be clear that student deserve high - quality qualification that meet their need , and that we must continue to develop and improve qualification , so that they provide for the need of student and employer . the curriculum and assessment review will take a view on qualification in the long term , as part of its wide consideration of how we prepare all young people for life and work , but there be some area where we need to act in advance of its recommendation . the first change that we will make be that we will not tell provider and student which type of qualification they can and can not mix together . it should be for college and sixth form to work with student , employer , mayor and high education to devise the good mix for each individual and deliver the skilled young people that their local economy need . we will therefore not be apply the previously propose rule of combination . there be a confusing number of qualification in the system , and through this review , we have already identify more than 200 qualification with low or no enrolment . we will remove funding from these in line with already publish date . this give student and employer a simple range of qualification to choose from . t - level provide an excellent qualification option , which should be available to more learner . we introduce three new t - level this September , and a further t - level in marketing be to be introduce from September 2025 . it be fantastic to see the energy generate by this year ' s T - level Week , which highlight the huge benefit that young people be gain from t - level , and their enthusiasm for the qualification . the unique industry placement aspect of T - level be a real draw for student and be all too often not offer by other qualification . we have recently introduce new flexibility to support industry placement delivery , to enable more young people to benefit from the opportunity that t - level provide . it follow , therefore , that where learner wish to study a large qualification in a t - level route , the t - level should be the main option for they . we have move away from blanket restriction , such as automatically defunde any qualification that overlaps with a t - level . instead , we have take a practical , evidence – lead approach , look at the qualification route by route . this will ensure that we can be confident that student have high - level choice . on this basis , we have conclude that we will not proceed with defunde qualification on publish list in agriculture , environment and animal care ; legal , finance and accounting ; business and administration ; and creative and design before 2027 . follow our review , we will retain funding for 157 qualification that be due to be defunde by 31 July 2025 . in engineering and manufacturing , we will keep fund for the qualification that be previously identify for defunde until 2027 . this will allow time to update the occupational standard that be design by employer and that underpin this large and complex route , and to establish new qualification that meet the need of learner , provider and employer . in the digital sector , we be work with the t - level award organisation to make assessment more manageable , and plan to have the necessary change in place for the next academic year . we be also make t - level placement more flexible , expand the option for remote learning . this will be particularly important in the digital route . we will keep funding for the six exist large digital qualification until 2026 , to allow time to embed these key improvement . beyond that , we will also keep fund for 13 small digital qualification , so that learner have a range of choice until reform alternative be available . on health , science and social care , the previous decision to defund social care qualification leave a gap , as there be a heavy t - level focus on health and science , rather than on social care . we will therefore keep fund for nine qualification in health and social care until new qualification in the care service route have be develop . we expect that to happen in 2026 - 27 . we be also keep funding beyond that for 11 qualification in science - relate subject to give learner even more option . on education and early year , we have hear strong support for the t - level , and so we will remove funding from exist large and medium qualification as plan in 2025 . this will direct learner who want to study a large qualification to the t - level as the high - quality option . we be also retain funding for six small qualification to support specific occupation , such as teaching assistant , give learner a small alternative . construction be a key part of this Government ' s mission , and I be delighted to report that two of the construction T - level continue to grow and offer high - quality option for learner . the on - site construction t - level be also provide valuable education , industry experience and a positive route into employment for those who wish take it . however , its success have be limit because of a lack of overall demand for a large qualification at level 3 . we have , as a result , conclude that the need of learner and the economy be well meet through apprenticeship and other classroom provision , and decide to cease take new enrolment for the on - site construction t - level . those already take it will be able to complete it as plan and progress into positive destination post - graduation . to meet the economic need of this important sector and to ensure that we can support our mission around high - quality housing , we be also keep one large qualification in site carpentry , and in 11 other medium and small qualification . we must continue to improve opportunity and the quality of qualification . we will keep qualification only until they be no long need , so that learner can do the t - level that they need to do . we will invite award organisation to submit further new level 3 qualification in the spring , to continue the process of reform . we be currently consider whether propose T - level in catering and beauty therapy meet the need of learner and the economy , and we will update the sector in due course . I can confirm that any new t - level in these area will not be roll out until at least 2026 . these change be a fair reflection of what we have hear , and offer a balanced approach that support our mission of spread opportunity and support economic growth . we want high - quality option , strong choice and a simple system that be easy for learner to navigate . the approach and timescale that I have set out today represent a pragmatic and achievable journey to where we want to be . we be put the need of learner and our economy at the heart of how we move forward . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of the statement . for many year , people have worry about the huge number of different qualification in further education . for many year , people have want we to be more like Germany and call for new , high - quality , higher - fund , simple qualification . t - level , introduce under the previous Government , be an attempt to do exactly that , with a high unit of funding and much more work experience . finally , we have a clear , prestigious qualification mirror a - level on the academic side . as the Minister will know from talk to Lord Sainsbury , part of the vision be to use t - level to simplify the landscape , which everyone agree be too complex . I think the sector will heave a sigh of relief that today ' s announcement be finally out — we be get to the point where literally any decision would have be well than continued indecision — but it leave some huge unanswered question . the Minister say that thing will be clear up until 2027 . in other word , we will be back here again in two year . we have a pause and a review . we will now have a long pause and another review . at some point , the Government will have to decide . the sector want certainty , but we know from the statement that it will not get that yet . the Government must spell out some kind of vision for how they plan to simplify the landscape of qualification , which for my whole lifetime everyone have agree be far too complicated and fragmented . the Minister say in her statement that the qualification landscape be too confusing , even as she announce that the Government have decide to keep more qualification , particularly overlap qualification . I do not want to be too mean to she — these issue be not easy . in Government , we have the Wolf review . more recently , we remove a further 5 , 500 qualification that have sustain low take - up , but what be this Government ' s vision to simplify the landscape ? never mind the detail , what be the rough vision , and when will they set it out ? if it be not t - level and what the previous Government be plan to do , what be it ? there be also a lot more work to be do to improve t - level . as the Minister say , the Government will allow part of the work experience to be deliver work from home , but we need much more than that . what be the plan to reduce drop - out rate , and make t - level more appealing and easy to deliver ? one of the great thing about t - level be the need to produce so much work experience — about 50 % more than previous qualification . that make they much hard to deliver . what be the Government do to help college to deliver they ? on a point of process , the government — extraordinarily , I think — refuse to publish the term of reference for the review that have just conclude , even in response to freedom of information request from FE Week . will the Minister agree to publish the term of reference now that the review have conclude ? there be no reason for they not to be in the public domain . no qualification structure will work unless the review get the funding landscape for technical education right , so will the Minister set out the funding implication of her announcement ? the Government promise that they would protect public service from the national insurance increase , but first university and , this week , nursery and early year provider have discover that that be a false promise . the university fee increase have be entirely eat up by the increase in national insurance . now , early year provider say that the failure to compensate they for the national insurance increase be " catastrophic " and will mean that " countless nursery , pre - school and childminder will be leave with no option but to raise cost , reduce place or simply close their door completely . " so far , the Government have refuse to come clean about the cost to the further education sector of the national insurance increase — a piece of information that this House deserve to know . the Government have it , but they will not release it . when staff in non - academise college complain about their different treatment on pay compare with academise college , the Government say that there will be £ 300 million for post - 16 education , but they will not say how much of that will be eat up by the increase in national insurance . I hope that today the Minister will finally give this House the information that it deserve to know . the Government have the information , and this House and people in the sector deserve to know it . it be early day , but what we be look at be ongoing uncertainty over these qualification , no clear vision to bring about the simplification that the Government say they want , and no proper plan yet to support t - level student and provider . the House be not allow to see the term of reference of the review that have just conclude , or know how much the national insurance increase will cost the sector . for student and teacher alike , we have to do well than this . I thank the shadow Minister for his many point . the reason the review be so pertinent and need to take place be because of the confusion around t - level and how much work need to take place — work that the Conservative Government have a lot of time to do . this Government believe that t - level be an excellent qualification that should be available to more young people . qualification that overlap with t - level will be able to co - exist while we continue to develop and improve qualification , so that they provide for the need of learner and employer , and support the transition to t - level as the large technical qualification of choice . the Conservative Government ' s rush plan would have leave young people look to move into crucial sector such as engineering or social care without option . instead of blanket restriction , the review will deliver on the Government ' s ambition to fix the foundation of the economy and deliver growth . as the shadow Minister mention , T - level be still in the early stage of implementation , and the retention rate be improve . we expect that trend to be maintain as they continue to bed in . career guidance for potential student be key , and we be raise career adviser ' awareness of the benefit of t - level . the shadow Minister will be aware of the announcement in the October Budget of £ 300 million of additional revenue funding for further education and £ 300 million of new capital investment . that settlement reaffirm and expand the Government ' s commitment to skill by provide an additional £ 3 million for further education to ensure that young people be develop the skill that the country need . in addition , the Government have provide £ 300 million of new funding to support college to maintain , improve and ensure the suitability of the FE estate , and address condition and capacity issue . we will set out in due course how that will be distribute . there be many area in which the Government be make advancement , and we be very aware that student need to be support . combination of learn be absolutely the right thing for they . we remain ambitious for student . I will endeavour to get back to the shadow Minister on the term of reference . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . I pay tribute to everyone who work in further education — a vital sector that make a transformative difference , and whose importance be often not properly recognise . vocational and technical course and qualification be a critical part of our education system , yet school , college and student have face great uncertainty as a consequence of the previous Government ' s decision to defund a number of apply general qualification . I welcome the additional certainty that the Minister have provide by commit to maintain some agq and pause any further change until 2027 . the landscape of vocational qualification be indeed too complex and confusing , but the cliff - edge approach adopt by the previous Government have significant adverse consequence . my Committee have hear evidence that the previous Government ' s plan have already have material impact , because some college have model the propose reduction in course and now face potential insolvency as a result . what support will the Government provide to college that have already plan and commit to their qualification offering for September 2025 , base on the previous Government ' s decision to defund , and now face further change ? the Committee have also hear evidence of the success of t - level for those who complete they , particularly in area such as healthcare . however , T - level account for just 10 % of all vocational course , and continue to have a worryingly high drop - out rate . what further work be the Government planning between now and 2027 to reform t - level and make they accessible to a wide range of student , include student with special educational need and disability , before any further change to agq be make ? my Committee understand the value and potential of t - level , but it be vital that in pursue this route as the predominant option for technical and vocational training , the Government be not lock some young people out of the opportunity to learn , succeed and thrive . I join the Chair of the Education Committee in praise many college , the sector , and teacher themselves . she be right to mention the track record of the previous Government . we very much want to support student in their learning , and especially college . where college find that they have to change course , or where there be issue with course , I invite they to make that know to the Department , to see what support can be provide . the £ 300 million that have be invest in this area should go some way to provide it . t - level need much focus through positive communication , and we need to ensure that young people enrol in the right course . there be a series of event and webinar to inform school , college and other professional work in educational setting about the outcome of the review . the Department will publish further information , advice and guidance in relation to 16 - to - 19 study programme in the new year . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of the statement . in the year since the Conservatives ' first botch move towards prematurely scrap a range of vocational qualification , the liberal Democrats have repeatedly warn of the consequence of that ill thought - through , counterproductive policy , so it be to be welcome that the Government have hear our and the sector ' s concern . the announcement be a welcome step forward to protect student choice and local decision making , and it be a more pragmatic , rather than ideological , approach . it be clear that the decision to defund be premature . t - level , while a welcome innovation , have not have enough time to bed in to allow an informed decision , and that risk too many young people be leave without appropriate option . now the Government be provide clarity up to 2027 , will the Minister lie out the process for monitoring and review the impact of those change until then ? will she lay out the timeline for the long - term curriculum and assessment review in great detail ? I have one particular area of concern in the statement , and that be around early year education . research last year show that rather than embrace the t - level in education and early year , student overwhelmingly opt for the overlap qualification earmark for defunde . now we hear the Government will go ahead and proceed with that defunding . give that reality , how do the announcement square with the Government ' s focus and rhetoric around prioritise early year ? how will the Government improve recruitment and training in that sector if it be not meet student ' need where they be ? the point be reflective of a broad question on the announcement , which be : what be the Government ' s overarch guide principle as to which course will be fund and which will not ? the rationale lay out by the Minister suggest they be work on a case - by - case basis , but in the interest of long - term stability and clarity , should the Government not be lay out their principle for how they will approach those decision more strategically ? finally , as student face a welcome range of post - 16 option — as we have hear , it be a confusing landscape — it be essential that they have excellent support in make those important decision . how will the Government ensure that all student have access to high - quality career guidance ? I thank the hon . member for the many point she make and for acknowledge the Government ' s pragmatic response . it be recognise that the previous Government be not focus on social care and childcare , so we need to relook at those area and ensure that level 3 and level 2 placement be available . she will be aware that we be conduct the curriculum and assessment review , and the qualification reform will be connect to the wide review , which will be publish next year . there be various other way that qualification reform be be monitor in term of the national audit . we be review the process on an ongoing basis . as well as see where the uptake be from student — this be where Skills England will come into play — we be look at ensure that organisation and employer be involve in the type of training and course available for young people , so the connection be very much there . we will follow through with more detail in due course . the certainty that the statement provide will be an early Christmas present for the further education sector . last month , I visit Bracknell and Wokingham college , a fantastic fe provider in my constituency where student learn everything from green construction to nursing , electric car maintenance to career guidance , which show the breadth of opportunity available through the fe sector . incidentally , those be all skill that will underpin the Government ' s mission . the FE sector be vital not only in break down barrier to opportunity but as a vehicle for growth , provide the green skill that be necessary to our economy and to support those mission . what more support can the Government put in place for the fe sector , in particular around the difficult issue of pay settlement for fe teacher ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the many important contribution of the fe sector . pay be not currently set by the pay review body , include for FE , and the Government do not set recommend pay in further education . with that say , my noble Friend the Minister have full knowledge of the need and crucial role of the FE college sector . when the Minister ' s other noble friend — the distinguished labour peer Lord Sainsbury — conduct his landmark review of technical and vocational qualification , he find that they be not only multitudinous and heavily overlapping but have become divorced to a large extent from the very sector of industry that they be suppose to serve . the overhang qualification reform be a massive power grab that the new Government be carry out , create a body call Skills England and abolish the independent institute that oversee technical education standard . Skills England be not even a separate body ; it be part of the Department for Education management structure . under the legislation go through Parliament , the Secretary of State will take to herself the power to oversee standard in technical education . that would not be acceptable for a - level so , as I ask in Westminster Hall the other day , how can it be possibly acceptable for t - level ? what do that say about this Government ' s commitment to parity of esteem ? I will ask my noble Friend the Minister to get back to the right hon . gentleman on that point . may I make a correction to what I say in my statement ? qualification in agriculture , environment and animal care , legal , finance and accounting , business and administration and creative design will not be defunde before 2027 , not 2024 . I be minded of that old adage — I suppose I be old enough to remember all these thing — that when you ask a fish to climb a tree , it do not make the fish stupid ; it just can not do it . my concern with the qualification review be that we will not have the breadth of scale that allow for student choice and accessibility , and it will try to pinpoint people into role that they can not be successful in . how can the Minister ensure that those gift in academia will have that clear path , and those gift with job skill will find their place as well , alongside those still search for their calling who be look for wide subject to keep many door open for their future ? we be keep 157 of the course that be outline to be defunde . that will be review on an ongoing basis depend on uptake . our focus be very much on economic growth , and our mission be for growth and ensure that young people have opportunity in t - level and other qualification to ensure that they be able to get the job that be desperately need in our country . we be not remove the rule of combination . More variation should support 16 to 19 - year - old to have access to the job they wish to do in the future . [ Official Report , 19 December 2024 ; Vol . 759 , c . 1wc . ] ( Correction ) Prison Capacity Strategy before we come to the statement on the Government ' s 10 - year prison capacity strategy , I note that it be publish yesterday , the day after Justice question in the House . this timing be unfortunate , as publish it a day or two early would have give hon . member an opportunity to put topical question to Ministers on the new strategy , so I be very pleased that the Minister have come to the House today to make a statement . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I hear your comment . with your permission , I will make a statement on the 10 - year prison capacity strategy and annual prison capacity statement that the Government publish yesterday . as the House will be aware , publish these document make good on a pledge make to this House by the Lord Chancellor in July when she come before the House to set out the emergency measure that we be force to take to prevent our prison from fill up entirely . let I begin by set out some context on prison place . as right hon . and hon . member will be aware , on 4 December , the National Audit Office publish a scathing report , " increase the capacity of the prison estate to meet demand " . that report be unequivocal in its criticism of the previous Government ' s approach to the criminal justice system , include their failure to deliver on their commitment to build 20 , 000 additional prison place by the mid - 2020s . only 500 additional cell be add to the overall stock of prison place . while the previous Government continue to promise prison place , there be significant delay to project — in some case , they run year behind schedule — and a failure to address rise demand have leave the system thousand of place short of the capacity it require . the expect cost of the Ministry of Justice and his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service ' s prison expansion portfolio to build the 20 , 000 additional place be currently estimate to be £ 9 . 4 billion to £ 10 . 1 billion , at least £ 4 . 2 billion high than the estimate in the 2021 spending review carry out by the previous Government . none of this be reveal by Ministers at the time ; it only come to light when the Government be elect in July of this year . it be now clear that even the original mid - 2020s commitment be not sufficient to keep pace with the expect demand on prison place , accord to the last Government ' s own projection . this put the viability of the entire system in jeopardy . have we run out of prison place , police would not have be able to make arrest and court could not have hold trial . it could have lead to a total breakdown of law and order in our country , with all the associate risk to public safety . that be why we be force to take emergency action , release some prisoner early than they otherwise would have be — in most case , by only a few week or month . that buy we precious breathing space , but if we do not act , our prison will fill up again . we must therefore act , include by build more prison place as a matter of urgency . integral to our plan for change be ensure that we have the prison place we need to lock up dangerous criminal and keep the public safe . the 10 - year prison capacity strategy set out how we will deliver that . the strategy be detailed , set out our commitment to build the 14 , 000 place that the last Government fail to deliver as part of their 20 , 000 prison place programme , with the aim of get that work complete by 2031 . it far set out what we will do : where , when and how we will build new prison and expand exist one through additional houseblock , refurbishment and temporary accommodation . the strategy be also realistic . as the House know , prison building be an extraordinarily complex and expensive undertaking . in particular , the planning process to get site approve for development be complicated and time - consume . that be why our delivery plan include contingency prison place , which will provide resilience in our building programme should a project become undeliverable or provide poor value for money that can not be take forward . we be also ambitious ; the strategy set out how we will work with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to streamline the delivery of prison supply , include important reform to the planning system and deliver on our commitment to recognise prison as nationally important infrastructure . it be also this Government ' s ambition to secure new land , so that we be always ready should further prison build be require in the future . we be committed to improve transparency , now and in the future . as such , when parliamentary time allow , we will legislate to make it a statutory requirement for the Government to publish an annual statement on prison capacity like the one we have publish . that annual statement will set out prison population projection , the Department ' s plan for supply , and the current probation capacity position . it fulfil our transparency commitment for 2024 and , crucially , will hold we and future government to account on long - term planning , so that decision on prison demand and supply be in balance and the public be no long keep in the dark — as they have be — about the state of our nation ' s prison . finally , we be be honest with this House and the public about what must happen next . build enough prison place be only one part of a much wide solution ; as the Government have already make clear , we can not simply build our way out of these problem . in the come year , the prison population will continue to increase more quickly than we can build new prison . that be why in October , we launch the independent sentencing review chair by the former Lord Chancellor , David Gauke , alongside a panel of expert include the former Lord Chief Justice , Lord Burnett . that review will take a bipartisan look at an issue that have be a political football for far too long , punt about by both side . the aim of the review be to ensure that we be never again leave in a position where we have more prisoner than place available . it will help we to ensure that there be always a prison place for dangerous offender , that prison help offender turn their life around and bring down reoffende rate , mean few victim , and that the range of punishment for use outside of prison be expand . the review will make its recommendation in the spring . the Government look forward to respond as quickly as possible so that we can begin to implement any necessary policy change urgently . when this Government take office just five month ago , we inherit a prison system on the brink of collapse . instead of dither and delay , we have take the difficult decision necessary to stop the criminal justice system from grind to a halt altogether , which could have lead to a total collapse of law and order in our country . however , this be not an overnight fix , and the journey ahead of we be long . this 10 - year prison capacity strategy and annual statement , along with the independent sentencing review , be critical step on that journey . the last Government leave our prison in crisis , put the public at risk of harm . we will fix our prison for good , keep the public safe and restore their confidence in the criminal justice system . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her remark . I also thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call out what be quite obviously an attempt to avoid scrutiny this week . I also thank the Chair of the Justice Committee , the hon . member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , for his effort to ensure that we have a proper statement today . I begin by make one thing absolutely clear : if Labour mp think that spend the next few year talk about our record in government be go to stop this opposition from hold they to account , they be dead wrong . there will be no free pass for they on these Benches . it be already clear to the british public why the Government desperately want they : they be flounder and they know it . I say to the Minister that I will happily spend all day compare record of government and inheritance . labour mp and the Minister decry our record of have have to release 5 , 500 prisoner early , but the last Labour Government release not just 5 , 500 or even 10 , 000 prisoner early . by the end of their time in office , they have release 80 , 000 prisoner early . that be the state of the system when Labour be in charge , and that do not even include the systematic erosion of the punishment element of our justice system bring about by labour ' s introduction of blanket halfway release for essentially the entire prison population . Labour do not call it early release , but that be what the british public know it to be . that be the record of the Labour Government that we have to try to turn around . I be proud of the fact that we begin to unpick that record by reduce early release for the most serious offender from halfway to two third , and that we introduce a whole - life tariff for premeditated child murder and increase maximum sentence for child abuser and other . let we be absolutely clear : the root cause of the problem that we now face be a spike in the remand population . we have approximately 7 , 000 more people in prison on remand than we normally would . that unprecedented spike have occur as a direct result of covid , and the Government know that . will the shadow Minister give way ? no — you can not give way on a statement . in fact , prior to covid , we have get the Crown court backlog down to a low level than it have be under the last Labour Government , another record of which we can be proud . to try to tackle the problem , we increase sit day and introduce Nightingale court , and contrary to what the Government have say , we be clear that we would carry on do everything possible to bring that number down . we do not refuse the judiciary extra sitting day , as this Government have do , nor would we have refuse they . we have agree a floor on sit day , not a cap , and negotiation be ongoing . if the judiciary have come to we and ask for more sitting day , we would have respond to that — and not by say no , which be what this Labour Government have do . in the prison population estimate that sit alongside this plan be the proof that the Government truly have already give up on fix this problem . not only do their projection not target the remand population be bring down , but they show it go up , which mean more victim wait for trial and more prisoner release early . we should be build more prison space , and under our leadership we actually increase prison capacity at the fast rate in live memory . that be not so we could accommodate more people on remand , but so we could go even far in ensure that offender be properly punish and victim get justice . the Government want to talk about the last 14 year , but I be afraid this plan leave I ask what they be do for those 14 year . they come into office tell the british public they have it all work out . what have they do on sentencing ? they have ask someone else to do a review . what have they do on how we prosecute murder ? they have ask someone else to do a review . what idea have they come into office with for tackle the court backlog ? absolutely none . today , as the Minister know , we have simply have a reannouncement of our plan prison building programme , with four new prison , all of which be already announce or under way before Labour take office . this be not a bold new strategy ; it be a continuation of work start under the Conservative Government . there be of course some important question for the Minister . first , give that we do not do so , why have the Government refuse additional Crown court sit day to the judiciary ? secondly , why do their prison population figure project an increase in the remand population ? thirdly , give that they be commit to build more prison space whatever the sentencing review say — they will have to decide that ; they can not park responsibility with an independent review — will she commit to continue our programme of increase the amount of time that the most serious offender stay in prison ? fourthly , miss from the prison population figure be any transparency at all about the number of foreign offender , so what be their estimate for the foreign offender population in our prison in future year ? the Government blame we for their early release , but the situation be nothing compare with the scale of the early release they themselves oversee when they be last in office . they release prisoner they should not have do , they botch the legislation and have to come back to this House to correct it , they let people out without tag who should have be tag , and they have give up on fix the fundamental issue of the remand population . the Leader of the Opposition have say that " we do not get everything right in government " , and she know there be no easy answer to these challenge , only trade - off . however , this Government be make it clear and clear how not to do it , and we on these Benches will be there every step of the way so that the british public know exactly that . yet again , zero humility from the people who put we in this crisis — it be absolutely staggering to think that that be what the opposition want to tell the british people . there be no apology for the crisis they leave we . when we take office in July , we be just day away from a complete collapse of our criminal justice system because of the inheritance we receive from the previous Government . the fact be that this government be take action . we have increase Crown court sitting day — there be 500 more — to ensure that we have capacity in the system , and magistrate ' sentence power have be increase from six to 12 month , free up 2 , 000 more day in the Crown court . I be glad the shadow Minister mention foreign national offender , because like he I believe that we need to be do more to deport the foreign national offender in our jail . however , there be a difference between he and I , because this Government be actually do something about it — less rhetoric , more action . we be on track to deport more foreign national from our prison than at any time in our recent history . since come into office , this Government have deport more than 1 , 500 foreign national offender , which be more than at this time last year , and who be the Immigration Minister then ? oh , that ' s right : it be none other than the shadow Secretary of State for Justice himself . if it be that easy , why do he not do it after 14 year in Government ? this government be take action to ensure that we have a criminal justice system that be fit for purpose . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . I welcome the prison capacity strategy . give the crumble condition of much of the prison estate , it be right that the Government be press ahead with the delivery of modern prison . I also welcome the explicit linking of this strategy to the independent sentencing review , and the recognition that , without change to sentence policy , prison could be full again in a year ' s time , which would mean extend early release . do the Minister agree that a long - term reduction in prisoner number in a way that good protect the public require a strategy for rehabilitation to reduce reoffende , and when will the Government share their proposal for achieve that ? I thank my hon . friend the Chair of the Justice Committee for his question . I be aware that the Lord Chancellor be due to give evidence to his Committee next week , and I be sure she will outline those step in more detail . the capacity strategy that we have publish be just one step in our plan , as well as go forward with build more prison . we need every single element of our justice system to be work , and that include the independent sentencing review . we look forward to the recommendation come next year , so that we can take they forward and we never have to be in this position again . we look forward to set out our plan in due course . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of the statement , and I thank the Chair of the Justice Committee , the hon . member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , for the point of order that I think help to bring the Minister to the House with this statement today . year of neglect under the previous Conservative Government have leave our prison overcrowded and unequipped to provide the tough rehabilitation require , which have let down victim and survivor in my patch and across the country . in fact , as recently as this week , the Conservative Opposition let down those victim and survivor by vote against the measure to exclude people such as stalker and murderer from the early release scheme . the result of the Conservatives ' incompetence be the SDS40 scheme — the standard determinate sentence early release scheme — which have see thousand of ex - offender release early to unlock emergency prison place . the Minister know my concern about that scheme , particularly in relation to domestic abuse , and I hope she will support my proposal to patch it up . will she , however , confirm what the criterion will be for review the scheme next year ? ultimately , Liberal Democrats believe that we need a sustainable solution to tackle this problem , because more prison mean more offender , more offender mean more victim , and more victim mean more failure . with 80 % of people in prison be reoffender , we know that reduce reoffende must be the key . I know that from have spend my career before reach this place support kid out of crime and gang , so why , in a prison capacity statement of over 1 , 000 word , be reduce reoffende mention just once ? will the Minister reaffirm her commitment to that effort , and can she provide more detail on how she will reduce reoffende to protect victim and survivor across this country ? I thank the Liberal Democrat spokesman for his comment , and he be right to raise the issue of reoffende . it be important to note that we have prison capacity available to protect the public , to lock up high - risk offender and to ensure we have public safety measure available , but we obviously see tackle reoffende as a serious priority . we be look at it across Government and pull every lever available to we . every Department must come together to tackle it , and part of that be the independent sentencing review . as he know full well , however , when we have a prison population that be run at boiling hot , we can not get into our prison and do rehabilitation work . yesterday , I be really pleased to visit his Majesty ' s Prison Downview and see the vital work be do with the woman in that prison , which be really important to achieve rehabilitation on the outside , prevent reoffende and protect the public . on SDS40 , the hon . Member will know that we have to take immediate action within day of come into office to protect the public , and to ensure we have place in our prison to lock up high - risk offender and keep the public safe . legally , we could only exclude offence , not offender , and we do introduce a wide set of exclusion than under the last government ' s early release scheme . all offender release under the scheme be on licence and be subject to recall . we be work to ensure that we never again get into the position of have emergency release , and that we have prison place available and can work on rehabilitate our prisoner so that they can serve a vital role in society . I call Justice Committee member Alex Barros - Curtis . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — I be just go to refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be a qualified solicitor , and I be also a member of the Justice Committee under the excellent chairmanship of my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) . I thank the Minister for the statement and the commitment she have make . I must admit that my head be still spin from the extraordinary response from the Tories ' spokesperson , the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) , give their absolute failure over the last 14 year to build the prison place that they legislate for , so we will have no more of that hypocrisy . I welcome the publication of the 10 - year prison capacity strategy , which I know the Justice Committee will scrutinise carefully . concerningly , however , it note that we could run out of prison space by as early as November 2025 . aside from the finding of the independent sentencing review , when they come , what other step do the Minister anticipate the Department take to bridge the potential gap in prison place ? my hon . friend will know that we be strain every sinew to ensure we get this right . this be a whole - system approach . justice be a system , and we need every part of it to be work for it to work correctly . my colleague the Prisons Minister in the other place be due to visit Texas to learn from the interesting model there , where offender earn time off their custodial sentence for good behaviour . Texas have cut crime by a third . we be also look at new advance in technology to see how they could help . for example , in Singapore artificial intelligence , combine with surveillance camera , monitor offender and spot moment that could escalate into violence . that be also be do in the Netherlands . a lot of option be available to we . the other thing we be do in the immediate term be increase the sentence power of magistrate court from six to 12 month ' maximum imprisonment for a single triable either way offence . that will also help we to bear down on the large remand population by ensure that those on remand be sentence far more quickly . this strategy do little more than commit to deliver the 14 , 000 place that the previous Government commit to deliver , except that it will cost more and take long . to what extent have the Government factor in optimism bias when work out the delivery timeframe ? honestly , the display from the conservative party be staggering give the inheritance we be leave with , and there be still no humility whatsoever . we have publish a realistic strategy for how we plan to deliver this , with contingency timeline build in , offer real solution . as I say , this be less of the rhetoric than we get from the conservative party , and more actual action on deliver these place . you fail to build — [ interruption . ] the conservative party fail to build these place , but we be go to deliver they . exactly . the Minister know that " you " would refer to I , and that would not be appropriate . the Conservative Government ' s dereliction of duty mean that they fail to deliver 20 , 000 promise prison place , which expose the hypocrisy in any conservative claim to be the party of law and order . I welcome the new Government ' s 10 - year prison capacity statement . do the Minister agree that publish an annual statement on prison place will allow transparency , accountability , and affirm that Labour be the party of law and order ? I could not agree more . the Labour party be be honest with the public about the situation that we inherit . we be publish our plan to be transparent about how we will deliver , and we will commit to do that annually to ensure that the public be never again leave in the dark about the state of our prison . since this Government introduce their early release policy , we have see criminal who should be in jail out on the street enjoy themselves with champagne , with one even thank the Prime Minister personally . instead of let those dangerous people out of jail , it would be much well to sort out the remand backlog and the increase of 7 , 000 in the number of prison place take up by people on remand . instead , the Government be cap the number of sit day . the Minister say that the number of sitting day be adequate . at what point will the number of prisoner in our jail wait on remand be return to the pre - pandemic level ? what be the date by which that will be achieve ? I have outline the action we be take to tackle the remand population in our prison . we be deal with the inheritance that we receive from the previous Government . we have increase Crown court sit day and increase sentencing power for our magistrate court . we will publish our plan in due course , and we be be transparent with the House . the Lord Chancellor will be in front of the Justice Committee next week , and I be sure she will be happy to answer those question then . have listen to some of the contribution from Conservative Members , I can not quite believe my ear . they be come to this place and suggest that they should be proud of leave this Government a justice system with few than 100 place in man ' s prison across England and Wales . would a well response to the statement not have be a much simple , one - word answer — sorry ? my hon . friend hit the nail on the head . Sorry seem to be the hard word for the conservative party . this Government have start as they mean to go on . that be why within the first six month we have already deliver nearly 500 place , and pledge to continue build the remain place of that 20 , 000 - place prison building programme . we have also launch the independent sentencing review , in parallel with our 10 - year prison capacity strategy . that review will ensure that sentence deliver well outcome for prisoner and protect the public , and that we will always have space to lock up dangerous offender . the Minister like to talk about inheritance , but if she check the record , she will discover that prison overcrowding be high in 2008 , 2009 and 2010 than it be in 2024 . it be true that we bring back long sentence for the bad offender . that be the right thing to do . it be also true that crime come down . there be two enormous area that the Minister need to work on — or perhaps I should say continue the work we be do in government . one be the population on remand and the length of time people spend on remand . the other be at a different point in someone ' s sentence , and the length of time they wait for a Parole Board hearing . we need more capacity to replace the old capacity with new prison , which be more conducive to rehabilitation and to get people on to a stable path and into work . I welcome the Minister ' s continue with the previous Government ' s programme . I just hope it be more successful than when Gordon Brown ' s Government try to build the Titan prison . if they have be build , we would not be have this conversation at all . I believe the right hon . Gentleman be the prison Minister in the previous Government , so he will know all too well the impact that this situation have have , yet they fail to build the amount of prison place we need and there be no apology , yet again , to the british public for the crisis we have inherit . we need a resilient and function prison estate to ensure that prisoner have the opportunity to be rehabilitate , as the right hon . Gentleman say . we be tackle our remand population , increase the sentencing power of magistrate , and build those new prison place he mention . as I say , we be take action and deliver on our promise , whereas the previous Government fail to deliver . the Minister be aware of my view that it be folly to build new prison to increase capacity . all we will do be create more prisoner and more overcrowding — it be a supply - lead industry . will she confirm what new idea will be incorporate into the new prison ? rehabilitation , not incarceration , be the key to address criminality . the hon . Gentleman make a valid point . we can not build our way out of this problem , and the prison population will only continue to increase more quickly than we can build new prison . that be why the 10 - year prison capacity strategy be just one part of that prolong solution . the second part be the independent sentencing review , which we have outline . focus on prevent reoffende be crucial to this Government ' s mission to build safe street . for example , the Government have commit to halve the prevalence of violence against woman and girl and halve knife crime within a decade , and I will work closely with Ministers across Government to ensure that we deliver on those bold ambition . LGBT veteran : Etherton Review I beg to move , that this House have consider Lord Etherton ' s independent review into the treatment of LGBT veteran . in July last year , Lord Etherton ' s report on LGBT veteran shine a much need light on a dark period in Britain ' s military history : an era between 1967 and 2000 when LGBT people be ban from serve in our armed force ; an era when homophobic bullying , harassment and abuse be widespread ; an era when LGBT personnel be demote , dismiss , or drive out of the force because of their sexuality . the testimony of those who give evidence to Lord Etherton ' s review and who have courageously campaign for justice be truly harrowing . the very value of a tolerant western democracy that we expect those force personnel to defend be deny to they . it be profoundly wrong . I have be determine as Defence Secretary that we will continue the work of the previous Government to deal with the injustice suffer by so many LGBT personnel . I be grateful to Lord Etherton for his work and for his report . I be grateful also for the support of fight with Pride and the coalition of more than 20 charity that back its work . I be grateful to they for provide the Government with invaluable guidance and advice on a range of restorative action , some of which I be able to announce today . I be also grateful for the very small team of official who have work from the outset within the MOD on this area . I be grateful , too , for how Members from all part of the House have come together to recognise the injustice and to support the action that first the previous Government and now this one be willing to take . this be unfinished business for Labour . we lift the ban in 2000 . we argue for the Etherton review in the Armed Forces Bill in 2001 . we welcome the Etherton review ' s recommendation and publication . in opposition , we call on the previous Government to deliver on the previous Defence Secretary ' s pledge for a debate in this House to , as he say , " make sure that the House properly debate the report and the Government ' s response to it " . — [ Official Report , 19 July 2023 ; Vol . 736 , c . 921 . ] today , this Government deliver on that commitment , and it be an honour for I as Defence Secretary to open the debate . in do so , I will update the House on the action we be take as a new Government to right the historic wrong to LGBT veteran . first , among the remain recommendation make by Etherton , I can announce today that we be establish a financial recognition scheme . when that scheme go live tomorrow , it will mean that almost all of the 49 recommendation make by Lord Etherton will have be deliver . recommendation 28 and 29 in his report specifically refer to financial award — a tangible payment — to reflect Government accountability and our determination to recognise these historic failing . I be pleased to announce today that we be launch an LGBT financial recognition scheme , with a total budget of £ 75 million . that be 50 % high than the level recommend in the Etherton review and the cap set by the last government . this financial recognition scheme will open tomorrow , one year to the day since the previous Government respond to Lord Etherton ' s report . the scheme provide two type of payment to recognise the discrimination and detriment suffer by LGBT personnel under the ban . the first be for those who be dismiss or discharge . it will be available to veteran who be dismiss or administratively discharge , include officer instruct to resign because of their actual or perceive sexual orientation or their gender identity under the ban . the payment will be at a flat rate of £ 50 , 000 . the second be for those who be impact in other way . this LGBT impact payment be open to all those who experience pain and suffering under the ban , include harassment , intrusive investigation and in some case imprisonment . the impact payment will be assess by an independent panel , with tariff range between £ 1 , 000 and £ 20 , 000 to make the award fair and proportionate to each individual . the two payment will run concurrently as part of a single financial recognition scheme . we have also set aside funding from the MOD to support those charity that can advise applicant on the scheme . as a result of the additional funding we have allocate , payment can reach up to a maximum of £ 70 , 000 for those who be most impact and most hurt and who qualify for both award . the scheme will remain open for two year , and application for payment from the scheme from terminally ill veteran will be prioritise . all payment , from both scheme , will be exempt from income tax and will not affect benefit that applicant may receive . the scheme will open tomorrow morning , and full detail will be online at that point . I hope that our decision to listen to the view express on the last Government ' s plan , to uplift the value of this scheme and to deliver it within one year of the recommendation be accept demonstrate our profound regret and our determination to do right by our LGBT personnel . today , I can make three additional important restorative announcement . first , those who be administratively discharge base on their actual or perceive sexual orientation will be able to apply to get their record set straight . as a result , the ban will be show as the reason for their discharge , finally remove any blame or dishonour on their record for those who have serve . secondly , we will restore the rank of veteran who have they reduce as a result of the ban , ensure that they regain the rank they rightfully earn in service . thirdly , while not within the scope of Lord Etherton ' s review , which cover the ban between 1967 and 2000 , we also want to acknowledge any LGBT veteran who serve before 1967 and who may have suffer under the ban . we be take further action to recognise their service and contribution . as a result , these veteran can now apply to have their administrative discharge qualified , their rank restore if it have be reduce , and their certificate of service reissue . former officer may also apply to have their service detail publish in the Gazette as part of the official record . work on these restorative measure and meeting affect veteran have not be easy , but they have show I how much progress our modern armed force be make . there have be a change in culture and a change in prevail attitude , and Britain ' s military today be more inclusive and more tolerant than in the past . each of the service have hold presentation ceremony to welcome LGBT veteran back into the family , where they have always belong . while there have be change , and there have be progress , there be no place for prejudice in the modern armed force . we still have more to do to reinforce zero tolerance of any discrimination or abuse anywhere in defence . I have a constituent who be not a member of the armed force , but a member of the secret service . he lose his job in the 1980 because he be gay . there be no compensation for he at the moment . I suspect it may not be the responsibility of my right hon . friend , but do he not agree that there should be parity of treatment across the force ? we rely on our secret service as much as we do our armed force . surely what be fair for they should be fair for those who have give their time and risk their life in the service of our country . my right hon . friend make the powerful point that this discrimination , harassment and abuse — systematic in some case — be not and be not confine in the past to the military . that concern have be raise by civilian at time within the wide defence field . I and Ministers in this team be as concerned about it there as in the military , but I think she will appreciate that we ask those who put on a uniform for our country to take on a special role , to step forward and to be willing to give their life to defend the rest of we . when those basic value that they fight for and that our country stand for be deny to they as part of their service , that be a deep injustice , and Lord Etherton ' s report give we the basis for recognition and restoration . that be the focus of my concern in this debate . in September , the Minister for Veterans and People , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) and I be proud to present the first Etherton ribbon to veteran , as a way of acknowledge the mistreatment of those affect by the ban . the Government be deliver for defence and deliver for LGBT veteran . I be intervene on my right hon . friend because I have to chair Westminster Hall in an hour , so I can not take part in the debate . my constituent not only lose his career in the Royal Air Force but be subject to abuse when he be arrest , include constant internal examination . he be beat , he be kick and he be spat at . he be march across the parade ground to his billet , where his personal belonging be go through . he be humiliate . be that sanction by the Ministry of Defence at the time ? be it sanction by senior officer , or be those individual work on their own ? they act like sadistic animal towards my constituent . something need to be do to investigate that . my hon . friend have be one of the most consistent and forceful voice on this historic abuse and demand for the Government now to provide some justice . he have raise that case in this House before . I do not know whether his constituent give evidence to the Etherton review . if he do , he would have be one of over 1 , 100 individual LGBT veteran who serve and have story to report to Etherton , often of the sort of abuse that my hon . friend talk about . it be base on that experience that Etherton make his recommendation . it be base on those recommendation that we make these announcement today . it be from tomorrow that we will open the scheme to start assess and then make payment that recognise that injustice . I thank the Secretary of State for make a really passionate speech . my constituent Ed Hall , who be in the Gallery , be one of the found member of the legal campaign to lift the ban . Ed be sack from the Royal Navy for be gay in 1988 and found the first legal challenge group in 1994 . when I meet he , he speak about people who have be investigate , about humiliation and stigma , and about people who be sack . many be make homeless simply because of who they love and their sexuality . will the Secretary of State join I in commend my constituent Ed Hall for his tireless work ? it have help to deliver justice today for so many LGBT + veteran , and which be , as Ed have say , " a close to the shameful chapter in recent british military history " . my hon . friend make a moving and powerful intervention . although courageous , relentless , energetic group such as fight with Pride have in many way lead the charge , that be open up by the stance of courageous individual such as her constituent who have suffer but be prepared to speak out about their experience , which give voice to the experience of many more . the whole history of social change and progress in our country be base on brave individual who at the outset will not stand for injustice , will not stand for that sort of harassment and will speak out . they start the movement that can bring pressure on government and other to change . the case that she cite stand for a number of LGBT veteran : people who serve this country and be not serve well by our military at that time . I hope that her constituent and her constituent ' s family will welcome the announcement , and I hope that they will be able to take advantage of the scheme that we will open up tomorrow . I welcome the tone and tenor of the Secretary of State ' s speech . I wonder if he could assist the House in set out the step that the Government intend to take to ensure the reliability of gather datum about the size of the cohort who be affect and may be eligible for the compensation scheme . the hon . Gentleman make a sensible point . the shadow Defence Secretary will know — he and his colleague start this work before the election — that one of , I would argue , the strength of the announcement and the scheme we be able to put in place today be the close work we have do with veteran ' group and fight with Pride , as well as with historian and those with access to record , to make our good assessment of the number of veteran who may be affect and may be eligible , and may therefore want to take advantage of these financial recognition scheme . we have set the budget for the scheme and set the level of award in the light of they . we will see how that go . I wholeheartedly welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement , and in particular the additional fund find to support charity who will help LGBT veteran with their application . one of my constituent write to I with a most harrowing story about how his career in the armed force end with an investigation by the Royal Military Police . he say that every aspect of his life have be greatly affect since the initial investigation , with his housing , employment , health and family life all have suffer as a result of the ban , which be rule illegal in 1999 . will my right hon . friend outline when eligible LGBT veteran impact by the ban can expect to receive their financial recognition ? they can expect to be able to get the full detail from 9 o ' clock tomorrow . they can expect to be able to complete the detail and respond to the information require from tomorrow . I be conscious that , for many of these veteran , time be tick , and I be determined that the scheme will not take long to make its proper decision . therefore , soon into the new year , LGBT veteran who be confirm as eligible should expect payment . I look forward , by the way , to the large number of contribution that there will be in the debate . as I wind up , I want to emphasise two or three point . this be a Government deliver for defence . this be a Government deliver for LGBT veteran . on behalf of the Government , I want to apologise without reservation for the pain and injustice cause during this dark chapter of our armed force ' history . the treatment of LGBT veteran be a moral stain on our nation . it be shameful that those who put themselves in harm ' s way to defend our country be treat in such callous and unjust way . our Government will now right those wrong of the past . that be why we be provide financial recognition to veteran . it be why we be make sure that payment will be fair , proportionate and prompt , and it be why we be deliver on the remain recommendation of the Etherton report . we will learn the lesson from that report . we will never forget the pain and trauma that LGBT veteran be subject to between 1967 and 2000 . we will root out any remain prejudice and abuse wherever it rear its head in the force and we will look to build a more diverse , strong military that well reflect the society that it serve and protect ; a military in which everyone can serve without fear injustice or discrimination . that be the one nation mission that the Government be commit to : a modern , representative , unified armed force , proud to keep Britain secure at home and strong abroad . I call the shadow Secretary of State . let I start by sincerely thank Lord Etherton and his team for undertake this hugely important review , commission under the previous Government and take forward by the present one . as in any such situation , the financial quantum will come under scrutiny , but the opposition recognise that the £ 75 million announce today be 50 % above Lord Etherton ' s recommendation , and we support and welcome it . in my ministerial and shadow role , this be the first time that I have speak on the issue of homosexuality in the armed force , not have have responsibility for veteran at the Ministry of Defence . I regard it as a great personal honour to stand here and put on record my reflection as shadow Secretary of State . first , I recognise the terrible pain , humiliation and degrade treatment experience by far too many people who simply want one thing : to serve their country . secondly , alongside the Secretary of State , I echo the previous Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , and the former Secretary of State Ben Wallace , in apologise unreservedly , give our position as a party in government for a significant part of the time that the ban remain in the military , long after the law for the rest of the country have change . thirdly , ultimately this be about recognise that the value of freedom , patriotism and public service be not confine to any part of society , but be common to all . we stand strong as a nation and our armed force be well serve if we recruit every talent from every possible walk of life . Lord Etherton have shine a bright light on a shameful , historic wrong , and I be grateful to everyone who submit a response to the call for evidence . I appreciate that for every person affect , that would have be very difficult — dare I say traumatic . it be right that on the day that Lord Etherton ' s report be publish in July last year , at Prime Minister ' s question my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton say that the ban be " an appalling failure of the british state " . — [ Official Report , 19 July 2023 ; Vol . 736 , c . 897 . ] early this year , a veteran from Bailden in my constituency contact I . Victoria serve in the woman ' s Royal Army Corps , but be dismiss due to her sexuality . she be subject to imprisonment and mistreatment , which many would consider abuse . as a result , Victoria have suffer from post - traumatic stress disorder for over 40 year . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to raise the compensation fund to £ 75 million for veteran such as Victoria . I be pleased that the hon . Gentleman support that , and I ask he to join I in welcome today ' s historic announcement , which complete the important work that the conservative party begin when it be in government to deliver on the recommendation of the Etherton review . Victoria and all those with first - hand experience , or anyone who have read the testimony or receive constituency correspondence , such as that mention by the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) , will know how harrowing and horrific those experience be . they be at the front of our mind as we debate this subject . I join the hon . Lady in welcome what the Government have announce today . as the report make abundantly clear , the ban on LGBT people serve in the military see brave service personnel face awful sexual abuse , violence , harassment and bullying . Lord Etherton ' s report also find that invasive investigation undertake into individual ’ sexuality cause long - last and severe impact for some . it find that many veteran subject to the ban develop mental health issue include ptsd , and experience difficulty with their employment , finance and homelessness , as we have hear . they find it hard to form long - term relationship due to shame and trust issue and , perhaps inevitably , some turn to alcohol and drug . compound that , due to an absence of transition support , many veteran feel isolated . tragically , the stress cause by the ban mean that we have lose LGBT veteran to suicide , and other have contemplate it . when meet campaigner I be strike by a particularly powerful point : what they want most of all be to feel a full and equal part of today ' s veteran family . as a House , I know we speak with one voice in say to everyone affect : you be as much a veteran as anyone else who serve this country . the financial package announce today will not undo the past , but it mean that both party in government have take significant step to deliver redress . important progress have be make in recent year to improve the experience of LGBT personnel , particularly in term of training . the Home Office ' s disregard and pardon scheme be set up to ensure that those who receive a conviction for same - sex sexual offence can have that conviction wipe . the Office for Veterans ’ affair award £ 250 , 000 last year to LGBT organisation to provide support service for impact veteran . that be on top of the £ 45 , 000 provide in 2022 to help organisation gather evidence for the review . in office , we launch the Etherton review and accept the intent behind each and every one of Lord Etherton ' s recommendation . we be commit to implement they in good time . we set deadline and make good progress , and we will support the Government as they conclude that work . we understand that 38 of the 49 recommendation have be deliver — the Veterans Minister be welcome to correct I in his wind - up , but I be sure that we would all welcome his provide clarity on the timeline for deliver the remain recommendation . for all the work of the previous Veterans Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) , it be never go to be straightforward come up with a deliverable package of financial compensation . as my hon . friend the Member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) say in his intervention , there be the crucial issue of gather datum , which be complicated . that be so , I welcome the two - pronged approach to the scheme , and in particular the fact that payment will be exempt from income tax , although I believe that mean that the timing be link to the passing of the Finance Bill . my understanding be that those affect will be able to apply under the dismissed or discharged payment scheme from tomorrow but , inevitably , the impact cohort will take long due to the involvement of the independent panel . I urge Ministers to keep we post on how the scheme work in practice . as the Secretary of State say , time be tick and we all want to see this resolved and money award as soon as possible . we fully support the plan to restore rank and amend official reason for discharge , and ask the Minister to clarify when those affect will be able to ask for that to take place . finally , I pay tribute to the many colleague who have campaign on this issue with passion and persistence , and to those in the last government for their work get we here , particularly Ben Wallace , Johnny Mercer and the previous Veterans Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for South West Wiltshire . finally , I pay tribute to Craig Jones , Caroline Paige and Ed Hall of fight with Pride , for their extraordinary effort to campaign , raise awareness and deliver this change . they have help to ensure that a tangible righting of a deep wrong be now happen in practice , underscore the equal place for people of all background in our veteran community and our armed force . rise — order . as member can see , a large number of speaker wish to contribute to a very important debate . I have no plan as yet to impose a time limit , but perhaps member might be respectful about the number of intervention they take . I warmly welcome today ' s debate , and I thank the Defence Secretary and the Veterans Minister for the way that they have go about this , work with LGBT veteran and charity such as fight with Pride , and build on the work of the previous Government . I know that the Defence Secretary and the Veterans Minister care deeply about this issue . the Defence Secretary rightly say that this be unfinished business for Labour , and the Veterans Minister assure I when I first raise this matter with he many month ago that the scheme would be up and run by the end of the year . we can put that under the " promise keep " part of the Government ' s record , and I be grateful for that . this be a profound injustice and a moral stain on the nation , as the Defence Secretary rightly say a few moment ago . thousand of servicemen and woman over many decade be interrogate , persecute and punish for their sexuality — people who only want to serve our nation , but be let down in the most profound way . a constituent of mine in Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven tell I that he feel " wash in shame " at the way he be discharge , imprison and discard by the RAF , despite his exemplary service record . thousands more veteran fall into that bracket , some of whom we have already hear about this afternoon and , hopefully , we will hear more about . those people lose their career , their pay , their pension and often their family and friend , but also , as the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) say , their sense of self , value and belong . the emotional , psychological and physical impact be still be understand . that be the central point of this debate and the injustice we face — how do we ever go about rectify something on such a scale ? hard still , how do we put a value on it and a process around it ? I thank Lord Etherton for his work on this issue over many year , and recognise that the Defence Secretary and Veterans Minister have work incredibly hard to build on the work of the previous Government to deliver this hugely welcome financial recognition scheme , which will be set up tomorrow . I know it will be welcome by veteran in my constituency and other across the country . I will do everything I can to encourage the many LGBT veteran in my constituency to apply for it , as I hope other member will , and as I know the Defence Secretary will . I welcome the increase in funding that have be allocate — a 50 % increase be not insignificant . this be a significant commitment from this Government , and it be welcome . I also welcome the creation of two clear funding scheme : first , for those with formal discharge and dismissal ; secondly , importantly , for the many who never suffer that discharge and dismissal , but who suffer much wide loss — emotional , financial and physical — as many member have speak about . as the Defence Secretary have say , it be also incredibly important that the option of restore rank and remove the record of discharge have be bring forward — a point raise by many LGBT veteran I have meet in my constituency surgery and around Brighton Kemptown . it be , in some sense , as important as the financial measure announce , so I welcome that , too . however , if I may be so bold , I would also welcome clarity on a couple of point . first , what estimate have the Ministry of Defence make of the number of people likely to apply for each of the two tranche under the scheme ? secondly , what estimate have be make of what the average payment be likely to be ? no two case be the same , as the Defence Secretary say early . of course , the headline figure of £ 70 , 000 be very welcome , but how many people do the Secretary of State believe will ever receive that ? how many be likely to fall into those two tranche ? I would welcome some clarity on that . thirdly , how do the Secretary of State respond to the concern that by keep a hard cap on compensation — albeit a significantly increase one — many applicant will ultimately receive quite low sum , particularly give the level of injustice that we have all state ? fourthly , will he explain why there be a two - year cap on application , and what the Government will be do to ensure that all who be eligible will come forward and will be able to apply ? as we know , and as we have all hear from look at this over many month , many people be only just willing to come forward on this issue . it might take much more time to reach the many people who have suffer this injustice . I be slightly concerned about that cap , and I would welcome some clarity on it . I be conscious of time , Madam Deputy Speaker . I know there be a lot of work to do to get these scheme up and run and to get the compensation out as quickly as possible . today be an incredibly welcome step on that journey . as we have hear , it have be a very long journey for many people — decade in the making — and time be run out to deliver justice . above all , I thank those who have make that journey possible , especially the extraordinary LGBT veteran whom I have have the pleasure of meeting in the past five month , and fight with Pride , which have do so much for so many to achieve the progress we be discuss today . before I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , I will just make the point that it be imperative that member be present for the opening statement of any debate if they wish to be call — perhaps particularly so for those on the front Benches . we be here today to discuss the implementation of the recommendation lay out in Lord Etherton ' s independent review into the treatment of LGBT veteran , follow the unjust and appalling treatment of LGBT + veteran who serve in our armed force under the shadow of a discriminatory and dehumanising ban . it be not just a matter of historical injustice , but an ongoing fight for dignity , recognition and fairness for those who give so much to our country and be repay with shameful betrayal . we must also recognise all those who serve before 1967 , and the injustice they face before that time . between 1967 and 2000 , thousand of LGBT + personnel be dismiss or force out of the military simply because of who they be . the anti - gay ban have and continue to have an enormous impact on people ' s life ; career be destroy , life upend and future take away . LGBT + veteran be out to their friend and family without their consent , face extreme stigma . not only do they lose their job , but they have their medal remove and be strip of their pension . in some case , a conviction make it impossible for people to move on and rebuild their life due to the barrier a criminal record create when try to find employment . it be indefensible that those who put their life on the line for our country should continue to be treat with disregard . the independent review by Lord Etherton lay bare the devastating impact of this discriminatory policy on LGBT + veteran and make 49 recommendation to address those wrong . while progress have be make , this process be far from complete . the Government must ensure that all the review ' s recommendation be act on as swiftly and comprehensively as possible . let I share two harrowing example from constituent of my colleague , which illustrate the endure trauma cause by this policy . this morning , I meet Michael Sansom , who sit in the Public Gallery today , who be a constituent of Monica Harding MP . he join the Royal Air Force — Order . as a Front - Bench spokesperson , the hon . Lady , first , should be on the Bench when I be on my foot . secondly , we must not refer to colleague by name in the House but by their constituency . my apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . Michael join the Royal Air Force at just 16 year old , fill with pride and ambition , and serve with distinction for five year before his life be shatter in 1992 . after innocently share detail about attend London club , Michael become the target of a covert investigation : his barrack be search in a humiliating manner , expose deeply personal item such as a romantic letter ; he be extensively and inappropriately question about his personal life , offer electroconvulsive " conversion " therapy , and undergo what at the time be describe as a " medical examination " , but would today be call sexual assault . ultimately , Michael be charge with homosexuality and detain for 14 day before his discharge , during which time he be subject to cruel physical and verbal abuse . follow his discharge , Michael lose not only his career , but his home and his sense of purpose . he be leave homeless , battle severe depression and rejection from his family . despite his immense contribution to lift the military ban , Michael continue to struggle with the deep scar of his past . he now seek justice for himself and other who endure similar horror . the current compensation scheme , cap at £ 70 , 000 , be an inadequate acknowledgment of the profound harm suffer by individual such as Michael . Michael say to I that he be proud to serve his country , and his country be ashamed of he . David , a constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Guildford ( Z ö e Franklin ) , also serve in the RAF during the 1980 , fulfil a lifelong dream . however , his career be mar by persistent rumour , bullying and verbal abuse . despite never be charge , he be subject to constant surveillance and intimidation . after year endure shame and distress , David leave the RAF follow an interview with his command officer , who bluntly state that there be no place for he " in this man ' s RAF " . to add insult to injury , David have to buy his way out of the RAF . he spend year unable to live openly as himself , and have face diminish career prospect and a significantly impact pension . like Michael , David find the propose compensation deeply disappointing , and urge the Government to reconsider their approach . these story be not isolate incident . they represent a systematic failure that affect thousand of LGBT + veteran . Lord Etherton ' s review reveal the immense toll this policy take on mental health , with 87 % of LGBT + veteran report that their dismissal impact their mental health , and 75 % state that their finance have be affect . the Government have accept 38 of the 49 recommendation make in the review , which I acknowledge , and have also acknowledge the need for compensation . I be also pleased that the total budget for the compensation scheme have now be increase . however , the flat cap of £ 50 , 000 for dismiss or discharged applicant be inadequate . veteran charity have rightly call it " inadequate and unacceptably low " . for people who lose their career , home and future , it be a small offering . justice demand well . it be unconscionable that veteran such as Michael and David be leave fight for recognition and fairness after already endure so much . the LGBT impact payment of between £ 1 , 000 and £ 20 , 000 be also unacceptably low for what one veteran describe as " state - sanction sexual assault " . the Liberal Democrats be unequivocal in our stance : LGBT + veteran deserve full and fair compensation for the harm they suffer . we call on the Government to reassess the compensation scheme , ensure that it truly reflect the gravity of the injustice endure . we welcome the four non - financial measure outline by the Secretary of State today for veteran who serve before 1967 , but it be vital that all 49 recommendation of the Etherton review be implement swiftly and comprehensively , include the return of medal , clarification of pension right and the establishment of a memorial to honour LGBT + veteran . Justice delay be justice deny , and the Government must expedite support for elderly or ill veteran such as Joe Ousalice , who serve with distinction for 18 year but now fear he may die before see justice . Joe deserve to have suitable compensation swiftly . he dedicate his life to serve our country and ask for very little in return . this debate also remind we that discrimination in the armed force have not be limit to LGBT + personnel . the 2021 Atherton report highlight the pervasive challenge face by woman in the military , include bullying , harassment and sexual assault . some 62 % of female veteran report experience some form of abuse during their service . such systemic issue be unacceptable and undermine the very value our armed force be mean to uphold . we must ensure that the recommendation of the Atherton report be fully implement and that diversity , inclusion and respect become cornerstone of military culture . the armed force represent the good of our nation . they be make up of individual who have pledge to protect we , often at great personal cost . for too long , LGBT + veteran be deny the respect and recognition they deserve . it be time to right that wrong . the Liberal Democrats stand firmly with our LGBT + veteran . we will continue to fight for fair compensation , the implementation of all recommendation from the Etherton and Atherton report , and a culture of inclusivity in the armed force . let we honour the sacrifice of these brave individual by deliver justice swiftly . I thank the Secretary of State for give an update to the House . I also thank he for show a clear understanding of the hurt and pain suffer by LGBT veteran over the year . it be important to acknowledge that no amount of financial compensation will ever wipe the painful memory away . however , these be clear step towards clean the stain on our nation that these violation have cause . as Lord Etherton say in his independent report , the failure to get this right " risk prolong the sense of injustice rather than achieve closure . " this debate , of course , go beyond financial redress . it be about correct an injustice live by veteran who lose their livelihood and their place in society . it be about act to repair long - last damage that cost many man and woman their physical and mental health . it be about give people back their sense of pride and freedom . they defend our freedom , while we be deny they their own . one such individual be a constituent of mine whom I sit with in November as he explain the very real horror he suffer . he join the Royal Navy in October 1979 shortly before his 17th birthday . he train originally as a naval airman , and then later as a marine engineer . in 1982 , after three year in service , he be accost in the middle of the night by four military police , place in a black - out van and take to the Royal Navy hospital , Stonehouse . there , he be force to strip and be subject to what he call " an invasive medical procedure " carry out by Royal Navy doctor . in front of an audience of military police , this physical abuse be just the start . with his uniform give to forensic , he be issue a dirty dressing gown , drive to a cell block and place in a strip cell . he encounter silent guard . he be give his meal on the floor . he be accompany to the toilet and to the shower . the silence continue for three day . my constituent be never offer any legal advice , nor any legal representation . he be interrogate several time by senior official , who tell he they see he as a threat to other servicemen because of his homosexuality . he be tell he would be detain until such time as they believe it safe to release he . he be not charge with any offence , nor be he aware of when he would be release . for 20 day , he be consign to a strip cell with the light permanently on , and with silent guard ban from talk to he . during that time , my constituent ' s father contact the Ministry of Defence in London to say that his sister , who have leukaemia , be now be keep on a life support machine . his father want to give he his chance to say goodbye , but be tell he be at sea . when my constituent be release into the custody of the regulate branch of HMS Drake , he be tell his sister have pass away . month go by and , while not detain , my constituent be class as an " offender at large " . on 28 March 1983 , without warn , every available rating and officer not on duty at HMS Drake be order to gather in the gym . alongside other who have also previously be detain for be homosexual , he be order to dress in full dress uniform . they be then march into the gym . there , in front of an audience of hundred , an officer with sword draw stand in front of he and remove his cap . the captain of HMS Drake read out numerous charge in full graphic detail — charge that have never be put to he . his description of the shout , insult and threat from a baying crowd be awful to listen to . no attempt be make to silence the crowd . he be then dismiss from the service with immediate effect . he be hand his civilian clothe and dump on the street of Plymouth far from home with £ 54 to his name . the long - last effect of that experience be — his word — " catastrophic " . drug and alcohol addiction plague his life for almost 30 year , with a vicious cycle of precarious work and unemployment . at this point , I want to quote directly from he : " I carry with I a sense of great shame , for not only be be gay see as criminal still in the armed force , but something you be almost force to declare you have be dismiss for from the armed force every time you apply for work . far to this , I spend those 30 year of self - destruction believe I deserve the treatment I receive , for I have be catch and as such blame myself for the mess my life become . " only 30 year later have he be able to recover a sense of pride , self - worth and self - confidence . he subsequently go to university and gain a first - class honour degree in English literature and creative writing , and recently obtain a master ' s research degree in English literature , both at the University of Chester . that be just a snapshot — a small part of the physical and mental health impact that the LGBT ban have on my constituent ' s life . we have an opportunity to bring an honourable end to this dishonourable attack against member of our own armed force . the way LGBT armed force personnel be treat do not reflect today ' s armed force . I welcome the fact that Lord Etherton and the Ministry of Defence have work together with an incredible community of veteran to achieve this announcement today . finally , I urge the Government to continue to work with the community to promote the scheme and ensure that every veteran affect by the ban receive the compensation they deserve . rise — order . it might be helpful if I provide a small business update to hon . and right hon . member . the second debate that be schedule for this afternoon will now not go ahead . that give this very important debate the full time up until 5 o ' clock , which will certainly enable I to get all member in . soon , many of we will be hold rapt by television ' s " SAS Rogue Heroes " , which return to screen soon . the series will focus on the elite unit as , back from initial success in the desert war , it face the much sterner challenge of Ayrshire , where it be briefly base until it go into action in Italy and occupy Europe . with legendary founder David Stirling languish in Colditz , the focus will be on new command officer Blair " Paddy " Mayne . Mayne should by right have be decorate with the Victoria Cross , our premier gallantry award , for his action rescue pin - down troop in Oldenburg , Germany , in 1945 . yet the award be downgrade . this be perhaps because of Mayne ' s enthusiastic off - duty drinking and his penchant for punch senior officer , but it might also have something to do with the suggestion that he be a homosexual . it be quite remarkable that such a martial giant should be doom to be " the brave man who never win a VC " over something so entirely irrelevant , yet today we must confront the reality that outmoded view of LGBT people persist in the military for far long than they ought to have do . nothing can be do now to right the wrong do to Blair Mayne , but the Government be address the suffering of people very much alive today . take my constituent Alan , once a teenager proud to serve in RAF blue . he tell I : " arrest for be gay , I be sexually assault by the Special Investigation Branch and make to endure horrific , humiliating treatment during a gruelling three - day interview . as a 18 - year - old kid , I lose all contact with my family and attempt to take my life five time due to the way I be treat . the long - term effect this have have on my mental health and family connection have not be easy . " the Government be in a position to deliver the element that veteran such as both Blair Mayne and my constituent Alan would recognise as vital to all military operation : speed . as we have hear , the clock be tick and time be move on . the Minister for Veterans and People , the hon . and gallant Gentleman who will sum up the debate , be no stranger to combat , but he may yet find the Treasury a difficult opponent when it come to the timing ; indeed , he may need the courage of Mayne to prevail in that struggle . we must all hope that this scheme be streamline and deliver apace , in a way that the Post Office Horizon compensation system be not . I thank member on both side of the House for the many compelling and move speech that we have hear so far today . when I make my maiden speech in this Chamber during the general debate on remembrance , I speak of the bravery and personal sacrifice of all those who have serve and continue to serve our country in our armed force . when read the testimony in this review of veteran who have relive their trauma , pain and suffering in the pursuit of justice , we be once again remind of that bravery and personal sacrifice . there can be no doubt in anyone ' s mind that they belong in our armed force , and that in ban they we do a great disservice to they and to our country . the policy of ban LGBT people from serve be rightly refer to as a stain on the history of the UK ' s armed force , but the evidence of the culture of homophobia , bullying , blackmail , sexual assault , abusive and humiliating investigation and medical examination — as if be gay be a disease to be remedied — go beyond a mere stain , and be , at its very mild , a shameful and reprehensible chapter in our history . these be people who want to serve their country and do serve their country , yet all that their country serve they be a P45 , dismiss or discharge they not on the basis of their performance , but on the basis of who they be . although after a dreadfully long 33 year the policy be eventually lift , we know that , as with many abuse , our LGBT veteran — the victim of this policy — have suffer appalling consequence for the rest of their life . that be what make this review and this debate so important . we must recognise that these be not dark tale of time go by , and that this injustice be still have a real effect on people to this very day — people like my constituent Chris , who bravely give evidence to Lord Etherton ' s review board about his own dismissal in 1984 . he come to one of my first constituency surgery and move I almost to tear , and I be proud to march alongside he in this year ' s Remembrance Sunday parade . Chris serve in Northern Ireland ; he volunteer for the Falklands ; he receive an air officer command commendation ; he gain promotion to corporal on his return to the UK ; and , while originally enlist for six year , he have aspiration to serve our country — to serve his country — for much long . however , once Chris ' s secret be out , and after six month of not know what be go to happen to he , during which he be place in the psychiatric wing of a military hospital , medicate daily , consider a security threat and investigate by the special investigation branch , he be dishonourably discharge despite a glowing report of his service career . he be boot out and leave to fend for himself with no support as he grapple with the rapid transition to civilian life , financial hardship , and suicidal thought . in meeting and correspondence with I , Chris have talk of his pride in be a member of the armed force and the love that he have for the Air Force . he have say that when his secret be out , it be not just his career that be dash , but his life as well . that point be important : this injustice be not just a career setback , but something that ruin life and take away time and opportunity that can never be give back . while we be thankfully a different country today — in no small part owe to the last Labour Government ' s lifting of the ban — it be right that we address the wrong of the past , and I must therefore turn to the subject of compensation . no amount of money can undo the wrong of the past , but I be delighted that the Government have announce a 50 % increase in the total compensation fund from £ 50 million to £ 75 million , with those affect able to receive up to £ 70 , 000 , and a flat rate of £ 50 , 000 for all those eligible for the LGBT dismiss or discharge payment . veteran who suffer from this abhorrent abuse , include a constituent of mine who be up in the Gallery today , suffer the most shocking experience of brutal rape and assault , and bravely want their story to be tell . do the hon . member agree that fund should be allocate among the victim on the basis of the severity of their case , as a small recompense for the vast horror that they have have to endure and , psychologically , continue to endure ? I agree with the hon . member . refer to previous case and the range of amount award , the review state : " an amount which fall below that range … risk prolong a sense of injustice rather than achieve closure " . I be glad that the Government be not take that risk . I be also glad that Government recognise that some veteran impact by the ban be seriously unwell . it be right that those individual will be prioritise , and that money be be set aside to fund key charity to help LGBT veteran with their application , which can be submit from tomorrow . however , this be not just about money but about pride in service . give that many LGBT veteran have their rank take away and be dishonourably discharge , I wholeheartedly welcome today ' s announcement that rank will be restore and discharge reason amend so that they reflect and honour the service of veteran who be impact . finally , I want to add a personal comment . as a citizen of this great country , I know that the freedom and opportunity I enjoy have be secure by the bravery and sacrifice of our armed force , and as a gay man , I know that the right that I can almost take for grant be hard fight for , and hard won , by those who go before I , who speak up against injustice and campaign for change — often at great personal cost , and often with the knowledge that they might never know , experience or benefit from the change and the future that they spend their life work towards . today give we a chance to thank both those group , and to recognise that they be not distinct but overlapping , because there have always be people like Chris , gay and serve their country . Chris serve his country with pride at a time when his country be not proud to take he for who he be . today , he can hear his Member of Parliament , and so many other , say , " we be proud , we be thankful , and we be sorry . " as have be say today , it be almost extraordinary now , in 2024 , to think that for so long the UK armed force uphold a ban on LGBT + personnel . the ban allow for the legal discharge of LGBT + individual from their duty , and in some case it mean that people be criminally prosecute . LGBT + veteran be out to their family and friend without their consent , force to endure stigma and discrimination . they lose their job , and have their medal and their pension take from they . some be criminally convict simply for be themselves . this have make it nearly impossible for they to rebuild their life , as they have face significant barrier to find employment and move forward . my constituent Stephen Purves , from Haywards Heath , be among the thousand who be so deeply wrong . Stephen be the last RAF officer to go to prison for be gay . he serve — indeed , endure — six month in a civilian prison , and he do so solely as a result of be himself . to add insult to injury , he be strip of his pension . he be court - martialle and dismiss in disgrace from the RAF in 1985 . he should have receive a pension from the age of 38 ; he do not . financially , Stephen be leave in ruin . he have have to work far hard to make end meet ever since . that financial insecurity , couple with the difficulty of find employment with a criminal conviction , be just one of the reason he be leave mentally scarred . he tell I that those scar remain . he have be leave to battle with the mental health repercussion of this scandal for decade . as well as the obvious and severe stress and strain of the financial situation that he be leave in , he have endure stigmatisation , isolation and social exclusion . it be indefensible that those who serve our country and put their life on the line for our safety and freedom be treat in that way . my liberal Democrat colleague and I be commit to ensure that LGBT + veteran receive the justice that they deserve . that absolutely include guarantee fair compensation for every affect veteran . I welcome the increase compensation announce today , but I be sorry to say that I do not think the maximum award of £ 70 , 000 be sufficient , give the other compensation scheme announce by the Government , include for the Post Office Horizon scandal . I do not think that that compensation be sufficient for someone like Steve , who lose his career and his liberty , who go bankrupt , and who suffer to this day . I urge the Government to go far . in the 1980 , age 18 , my constituent Robert move from Scotland to sunny Weston - super - mare to pursue a bright career at RAF Locking , which be then a vital part of the RAF ' s technical training , radio and radar network . however , not long after move to Weston , Robert be question by the special investigation branch about be a practise homosexual . very soon after that , his career in the RAF be over , and the shame and embarrassment cast a long and powerful shadow over the rest of his life . Robert be unable to return to Scotland because of the hostility and rejection associate with be gay . after be treat so terribly by the state that he be work so hard to protect , it take Robert a long time to be able to live a happy , healthy and fulfilled life . for so many gay people over many generation , move away from the home and family be a way of find acceptance , or at least anonymity , and an escape from judgment and shame . for Robert , like for so many other — myself include — Weston - super - Mare be a place of sanctuary and healing . our town look after people , and I be very proud of that . over the past decade , the RAF and our other armed force have become international beacon of inclusion , demonstrate that who we be be no barrier to serve our country . today ' s announcement be a profound statement of who we be as a country and , importantly , it remind we that we be strong and well defend because of that openness and candour . there be some thing , however , that only a Government can and should do . the independent review by Lord Etherton be a powerful move towards justice , and so many people be grateful to he for his diligence and compassion . today ' s announcement follow the Government ' s commitment to the victim of the contaminated blood and Post Office scandal . those be profound act by the state to apologise to and rebuild trust with those who have wait far too long for fair treatment . I be grateful to the Defence Secretary , the Minister for Veterans and People , fight with Pride , and the previous Government for their work to right this wrong . I hope that the thousand of affected veteran , include my constituent Robert in Weston , will receive meaningful justice . like the Front Benchers , I want to start with an apology . I be sorry that anyone have to go through this . as have be say , the compensation do not make up for the treatment that victim receive or fix the situation . it still happen , and I have be pleased to hear , from everyone who have speak so far , the recognition that it happen but should never have happen . I will talk a little about some of the speech that have be make , but first I have a number of question for the Minister about the compensation scheme . I listen carefully when the Secretary of State talk about how the scheme will work . I understand from what he say — although I may be wrong , so it would be helpful if the Minister clarify — that there will be two pot . one pot will be for flat payment of £ 50 , 000 to people who be dismiss or discharge . the Secretary of State use the word " instruct to resign " . a little clarity on what that mean would be helpful . if people be sit down and tell , " you must resign , " do that count as an instruction , or would it be an instruction only if they be give a letter formally tell they to resign ? where be the bar by which the flat payment of £ 50 , 000 be judge ? the Secretary of State seem to suggest that the other payment be for two different group . it be for those who have suffer hardship in addition to the discharge — imprisonment or additional discrimination , for example — but I be not sure whether it be also open to those who be not discharge but do suffer discrimination as a result of their sexuality . do it fulfil those two purpose of be both a top - up payment and a payment of recompense for those who experience more minor suffering than a discharge ? some clarity would be helpful . the scheme ' s two - year time period have be mention . although I appreciate that people need to know the closing date , it would be helpful if the Government commit to undertake some sort of review at , say , the one - year point to ensure that the scheme be operate as intend , that as many people as possible have apply and that the process be go smoothly . this would allow the Government to say , " we think two year be adequate , because we reckon that 90 % of people have apply in the first year , " or , " we don ' t think two year be appropriate , and we therefore think the scheme should be extend to ensure that everyone who be entitle to this compensation can get it . " will people who be currently overseas be able to apply ? the hon . member for Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven ( Chris Ward ) talk about people lose their sense of self , and the hon . member for Weston - super - Mare ( Dan Aldridge ) say that some people have to flee because they want to leave their trauma behind , and may now be overseas as a direct or indirect result of their treatment . will they still be able to apply to the compensation scheme and to receive compensation , regardless of where they currently live ? can the Minister assure we that the charitable support will have a geographic spread ? for instance , if there be charity that work only in England , will other charity be fund to provide support to veteran in other part of these island ? the citizen advice bureau in Aberdeen have something like a 14 - week wait for people to get any advice . although it be a national charity , it have different waiting time in different place . will the Minister look into whether the charitable support have the geographic spread to ensure that everyone can get the help and support they need ? we have hear about people ' s sense of self , and about what they lose as a result of either be discharge or have their life make so difficult that they could no long remain in the armed force . the immensely powerful speech of the hon . member for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Elaine Stewart ) set out the trauma her constituent go through , and it echo the evidence give to the review . it be very difficult for we , sit here , to listen to such account , never mind for all those people who have to go through those horrific experience . People lose not only their career or their standing in the community ; they lose a part of themselves when they be tell , " you can not be both a soldier and gay . " these people have dream forever of join the armed force , and they serve with incredible bravery and honour , only to be tell , " we don ' t want you . " do the hon . Lady agree that it be not just the loss of a job or a pension , but the loss of share value ? these people feel reject , as they could no long do thing that other veteran be able to do together . the hon . Lady talk about people who flee the country , but Karen in my Mid Dorset and North Poole constituency be betray by another LGBT service member who be seek to protect themselves . some personnel avoid their own discharge by betray someone else . do the hon . Lady have any thought on that ? it be not my place to comment on individual who perpetrate such abuse , nor to judge whether these be systemic issue or whether personal gain be receive . however , I understand that people want redress . the Minister have recognise that , above and beyond the pot of money specifically for those who be discharge , there be another pot for those who face additional hardship . one of my constituent have be in touch to say that he have intend to be in the armed force for life . that be his plan and he have never want to do anything else ; his aim be to be a member of the armed force . when he be eject , his hope , dream and sense of self be all go from he , and recover from that trauma be incredibly difficult . I appreciate the work that the Minister and the Secretary of State have do , as well as the work do by the previous Government , in order to ensure the compensation scheme have come forward , and I appreciate that the amount of money in the pot have be increase . I have already ask some specific question , but on the family of veteran , it be incredibly important that there be follow - through . for example , previously , the medal send to some LGBT veteran be post in the normal post and fall through the letterbox on to the carpet , along with bill from BT and energy supplier . I do not think that be appropriate or provide the same recognition that other people receive when they get their medal . More can be do to ensure that be part of the family of veteran be not just warm word , but a reality . People should be provide with a welcome , as well as be tell that they will provide with a welcome to that family . I thank the Minister and everyone who have speak today . I thank all the organisation and individual who have be fight for this outcome . I also thank those who have not be brave enough to tell their story , and who be go through such difficult time that they be not able to do so . those who be in the Gallery today have be able to give voice on behalf of themselves , but also on behalf of their friend and colleague who be not able to tell their story to we today or to the review . I thank those who have tell their story for be the voice for the community . I hope the Minister be able to answer some of my question , in order to ensure the compensation scheme work as the Government intend and give an amount of recompense for the extreme trauma and suffering that people have be through . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this important debate . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement that , in response to the Etherton review into the treatment of LGBT veteran , additional amount of compensation will be offer to all victim , and a second tier payment will be offer to those most severely affected . that be most welcome , but it be so very late and it will never be enough to compensate our LGBT veteran for the treatment they suffer while try to serve our armed force , and the abandonment they feel once they have leave . as Craig Jones write in his book , " serve with Pride " , which share some of the tragic story of LGBT life blight by this shameful period of military history : " with quiet dignity , most have endure . these be veteran deserve of our compassion for the adversity they have face and the courage they have show all while wait to be hear and acknowledge . after all they have be through , it be quite remarkable that for most , their loyalty to the armed force have endure and still today many simply seek acceptance and recognition amongst their comrade . " today , I would like to tell the story of a brave and commit solider that I have the honour to meet . my constituent , a veteran from 50 year ago , carry the heavy burden of shame of be dismiss from the service for be who they be , rather than be thank for all that they do . Gunner Ashton join the Royal Artillery in 1969 , become the good small arm shoot and serve in Germany , defend we from the cold war threat . he achieve top technical rating as a surveyor , be tip for promotion and spend four month in Northern Ireland at the border and by the Falls Road in Belfast , where he be shoot at , bomb and see his comrade fall : such bravery and courage , such distinguished service and commitment , such capability and achievement . may I place on record the pride and recognition that Gunner Ashton so richly deserve ? Gunner Ashton , however , serve three year before be medically discharge . Ex - Gunner Ashton disappear back up north into obscurity , never know he be a victim of the gay ban , not know he be a veteran and , certainly , never have be thank for his service . what a sad end to a promising career and a sad indictment of the armed force ' disgraceful treatment of our LGBT officer at that time . I be glad to say that that be not the end of the story . Gunner Ashton be courageous enough to seek help to become Claire Ashton , the same kind , compassionate and capable person that she have always be . when I meet she in our constituency , I be immediately impressed with her dignified approach , her thorough and detailed account , her excellent service record and her steely determination to seek recognition for the thousand of her comrade who have suffer this injustice and who deserve our recognition . finally , after 50 year , ex - Gunner Ashton hear the Prime Minister apologise to our LGBT officer last year and launch the reparation and compensation scheme . finally , Claire receive her veteran identity card and a small veteran badge . finally , ex - Gunner Ashton be recognise as a veteran and for her remarkable contribution to the Artillery . Claire join the ex - service organisation that support LGBT personnel , fight with Pride , and be give the honour of carry its standard at last year ' s Royal British Legion festival of remembrance at the Royal Albert Hall in front of the King and Queen , among 50 veteran from the organisation , stand shoulder to shoulder with thousand of our other veteran . Claire ' s fine hour , however , be when , wear her small veteran badge at the Cenotaph , a passer - by notice the badge and say simply , " thank you for your service . " that be the first person to do so ; it have take 51 year . I would like to be the second person to thank she for her service and to ask that it be record in the Houses of Parliament . Claire Ashton be here today , have travel on the train at 5 am from Shrewsbury . she be in the Gallery , watch the debate , and I hope that she feel the respect and admiration of this House for her contribution to our armed force . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I also hope she feel our earnest endeavour to put right this terrible wrong . I ask Claire Ashton if she have a message for the Minister and for this House . she ask that we understand that , in order to recruit and retain good recruit for our armed force , we need to treat our veteran with the dignity and respect that they deserve . serve personnel will ask , " what future do I have in our force ? " and new recruit will hesitate if they do not feel welcome . we have an opportunity to learn the lesson from the past and ensure that strong recruit and excellent officer be support and nurture to reach their full potential and thrive in our armed force . it be a matter of fundamental welfare for serve personnel and veteran to feel safe and value . indeed , as Claire Ashton , who will have the last word , remind we : " that be all we want , to feel value " . we have hear some very powerful story today . it be not every day that my constituency surgery lead I to well up — I be normally as hard as nail — but I recently have the pleasure of meet Craig Jones MBE , one of the founder of fight with Pride . he talk so powerfully about his own and other veteran ’ story of pain and injustice , but he also speak of honour and pride . it be deeply move to speak with he . during our meeting , the word " honour " come up time after time , as Craig describe his LGBTQ + colleague in the armed force who suffer so much under the ban which , we must reflect today , be lift only in 2000 . in the period before that , thousand and thousand of LGBTQ + service personnel be remove or force from service and many , as we have hear , be physically or sexually abuse . Craig tell I that many of his colleague feel " wash in shame " because of what happen to they . in those day , simply admit to be gay be dangerous and have far - reach consequence , which we must compensate for today . although homosexuality be decriminalise for civilian in 1967 , it remain a criminal offence in the armed force . these people face imprisonment . we must compensate fully for that . Craig describe move to Brighton , say that our city be the only place in which he and his partner feel safe . on the day that the ban be lift , he come out as gay and , after a few more year , he leave the force . he help find fight with Pride , and take part in that excellent campaign that lead to the Etherton review and the action that we be pleased to welcome today . but I do not think that this be finish . as other member have say , the financial scheme be crucial ; it must provide full compensation . it appear that Lord Etherton be unable to go high than the recommendation in the review of a cap of £ 50 million , and be unable in his term of reference to recommend a financial scheme that be unconstrained . this £ 75 million be a rise , but , as other have say , it be not high enough . fight with Pride have say that £ 150 million would be a more realistic estimate if it be to provide real justice to the people who might come forward . in the interest of real justice , I do not believe that we can cap this number at all . as the Royal British Legion have say in response to the early propose cap , the cap provide an incentive for the Ministry of Defence to limit the number of people apply for compensation , in opposition to the aim of achieve fair recompense . moreover , fight with Pride today ask whether the flat rate of £ 50 , 000 would really be able to compensate for the pension that would have be earn by all those people who be discharge early . as Craig point out to I , this have be a " discreet " community . we still do not know how many people could come forward have be harm by these unjust policy in way not envisage by the strict type of payment describe in today ' s statement . for the wide impact payment , we be talk about harassment , invasive investigation and imprisonment . I would welcome some clarity from the Minister today as to whether this could go far . People may have resign because they feel that they could not come out ; because they be not able to live in the way that they would choose to live . they have still suffer harm . they have be unable to fulfil their full potential , which be genuine harm . we have speak about shame and honour in the story that we have tell today . there could be people who want their colleague to preserve their honour to help they not feel ashamed and who want to be discharge for state other reason , so that nothing in the write record would confirm that they have suffer from the harm for which the flat - rate payment be envisage , but who have none the less suffer exactly the same harm . I would welcome some clarification on whether you might go wider , and be willing to be challenge — please say , " he " . sorry . would the Minister be willing to be challenge on those term in the future ? this compensation must bring the full comfort and security in old age that be enshrine in the armed force covenant . it must bring true justice for the community that be shame so shamefully . these payment must be look at again . I start by thank the Secretary of State and my hon . and gallant Friend the Minister for Veterans and People for their intense understanding of this issue and of the whole veteran ’ community . this debate come at a critical juncture in the story of these people — these people of service who have be let down by our nation . that be a great source of national shame , as other member have say . although progress have be make , we must ensure that these veteran , some of whom have suffer immensely at the hand of the state , be compensate adequately . I be pleased to hear the Secretary of State ' s announcement today , especially around the financial arrangement . it be delivery as promise and it be a victory , which have be a long time come for these people . as a gay man in this place , I be all too aware that we stand on the shoulder of campaigner , activist and giant of the LGBT right movement , who have come before we . for over three decade , individual who serve , or want to serve , this country be shame , or risk be shame , expel , imprison , and put on a register of sex offender in some case . their life be destroy for the sake of their sexuality . be LGBT be not a weakness ; it be a strength . we train , fight and serve as hard as anyone else . like carbon keep under the earth ' s crust for a long time , diamond emerge in our heart because of those experience . these be the people who have build our force over the year . we owe they a great debt . I be glad that this discrimination , which be once accept — indeed , institutionalised — be over . our force be well for it , and our country be strong for it , but for so long the value that we hold dear of respect , duty , service and honour be not uphold for these people , who be let down , such as my constituent Steven , without whom — I have tell this story before — I would not be raise this issue . this be a man who lobby I from day one of my selection as the labour candidate , and rightly continue to lobby I to this day . he be expel on suspicion of his sexuality . his life be take from pride in what he be do to ruin . in my recent Adjournment debate , we hear truly heartbreaking and harrowing story of service , and betrayal of that service by those in power at the time . as I say in that debate , I pay tribute to fight with Pride , which have be at the forefront of this campaign , alongside other colleague in the Chamber . individual such as Craig Jones , my friend Carl Austin - Behan , and the noble Lords in the Gallery , Lord Etherton and Lord Cashman , who have be a part of this over a long period , have do so much to raise awareness of the unique challenge face by LGBT veteran , and veteran more broadly . as the Minister know , financial redress be key to justice for these veteran , but the capped £ 50 million allocate be plainly inadequate give the level of trauma and destruction that these people experience , be it mental health crisis , substance abuse , homelessness , destitution , disownment by family , be label sex offender , be victim of suicide and more . the scary thing be that this be not ancient history . People have come to I with story from the late ' 90 , when I be a kid . it be not that long ago . I be glad to hear today ' s announcement , because frankly , true justice have always require a more substantial financial commitment that acknowledge the suffering and deliver fair and meaningful compensation . while I welcome the Government ' s action , particularly around the scheme itself and the two - pronged approach , I have some question on the cap , especially for the second element of the scheme . I understand the flat - rate approach for the first tranche , but on the second tranche , people who have experience complete horror , of which we will probably hear more in the debate , I wonder whether a cap of £ 70 , 000 , although that be a substantial amount of money , be enough redress . the Secretary of State mention that a committee will assess case - by - case the experience of such veteran . I wonder whether the experience of that committee might leave it well place to decide the level of redress , perhaps within an overall cap . I understand that , particularly in the view of the Treasury , this be not always possible , but it be good to have the maximum amount of flexibility in deal with specific case , some of which be completely harrowing . Lord Etherton ' s review offer a crucial road map , and the noble Lord have do veteran , and indeed our country , a great service in bring we to this point . complete the recommendation in full will ensure that veteran , regardless of their orientation , be treat with respect and fairness , and from the Government ' s perspective , it will honour the contract that be start with these man and woman so long ago — a contract that be break on the Government ' s side . lastly , I welcome the restoration of rank and the amendment of dismissal reasoning , and thank the Minister for listen all the way through this process . my hon . friend the Member for Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven ( Chris Ward ) have long be a champion of this issue ; I think he mention it to I on the first day we be here . I know it have be a long listen exercise for the Minister . there be still a little far to go to ensure that there be maximum flexibility for our veteran , but I know he be do his good to champion the issue and right this wrong . today can be consider a great victory for these fighter . I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for take the time , and I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to contribute . as a retired RAF police officer , I be particularly move by story where my own branch seem to have act so zealously . perhaps it be appropriate that I apologise on behalf of the RAF police . my hon . friend the Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) make the same request on behalf of the Royal Military Police . I be glad that the debate be be hold at length in the House after it be deprioritise by the previous Government . perhaps it would have require olympic - standard political gymnastic to show empathy with the victim of the LGBT ban , apologise to those victim as do Prime Minister Rishi Sunak while manufacture — Order . I make the point early that we do not in this House refer to serve member of the House by name . he remain the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton . thank you for correct I , Madam Deputy Speaker . the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) do so while the mother of Brianna Ghey be on the estate . I appreciate that be a bit of a change in tone from the rest of the debate , but it be important that we recognise that the rhetoric we use in this House have a cultural impact across the rest of society . the Government should be proud that they bring the debate before the House . they have my gratitude , and I know there be people present who be directly affect by the ban , include Lesley Davison , who travel from South Devon to be in the Public Gallery . our LGBT veteran should have be able to serve their honourable career fully and retire simply as veteran , but they be unfairly discard by the Ministry of Defence in line with the law of the very country they serve . the Ministry of Defence describe this as a " moral stain " on the armed force , but it be also a stain on the history of our country . one haunt testimony come from a constituent of north Shropshire . it be an account of how hundred of gallant , proud and selfless service personnel be hunt by the military police , arrest , interrogate and often imprison for even an assumption of their sexuality . take a moment , if you would not mind , Madam Deputy Speaker , to imagine the line of questioning of an interrogation into one ' s sexuality . to anyone who be affect by the ban in any way , I believe you and I be sorry . by the time I join the Royal Air Force in 2000 , the ban have be lift , but the legacy of the ban and of the political culture at the time be a toxic mentality that remain in plain sight for several year . I recall my initial trade training at RAF Cosford . one particularly notorious training team threaten to call ahead to my future unit and have my head " cave in " once I arrive for merely dare to voice support for the LGBT community . I be 17 . I be sure that such intolerance continue to persist in small pocket of narrow - mindedness that exist beneath the surface today , but I be proud that the RAF I leave in 2023 be , indeed , a greatly transform and more inclusive organisation . I be now simply a veteran . during the general election campaign in June , I join some local veteran for a communal breakfast in Tewkesbury . they be decent , honest and selfless , and they meet regularly and welcome I as their own . but before I be introduce to the group at large , one person pull I aside and whisper , " Don ' t worry about the he / she . we just ignore it . " it turn out that " it " be transgender Royal Navy veteran Gina Shelton , who have serve in the closet as a man despite internally identify as a woman to avoid persecution by her own friend and colleague . I spend a few minute speak with she . she be seat clearly separately from the rest of the main group , and I could not help but feel move by her courage and dignity as she speak matter - of - factly about her circumstance , but with an affection and understanding for those fellow veteran who even now disown she . she take responsibility for the way she be now ostracise , which I admire but reject . I otherwise enjoy the company of my fellow veteran . I should reiterate that these be decent , honest people , but meet Gina remind I that change mind be the great challenge before we , and that challenge will endure long after legislation . the Liberal Democrats have always stand with the LGBT + community , and be proud to have bring the equal marriage Act into law while in government . I be proud that those treat unjustly by the LGBT ban have now be able to speak their truth . it be difficult to put a monetary figure on such an injustice , but have consider the Secretary of State ' s announcement this afternoon , we still call on the Government to stand with the Royal British Legion and fight with Pride and uplift the fund to £ 150 million . finally , let these veteran ' legacy not be one of tragedy . let member of this House learn the lesson that the previous Government never do : that the language we use in this place have real - world consequence . this be an important day for a whole generation of ex - service personnel in my constituency and across the UK who lose everything they know because of a policy that be discriminatory and wrong . I pay tribute to the charity fight with Pride and the coalition that have lead this campaign with the dignity of ex - service personnel , in the very good of that tradition . we speak a lot in this House about the tremendous debt and respect we owe to our armed force . that be something we in Aldershot and Farnborough feel very deeply , as people from our community have serve in every major conflict that our country have face over the past 200 year , yet the story we be hear today remind we that that respect be about not just word but deed . I thank Lord Etherton for his work and the Government for listen , respond and take action . I will use my time in today ' s debate to draw the House ' s attention to the sister ban of this policy , for which the Government be rightly compensate people — the ban on people live with HIV join or serve in our military . that ban be not repeal in 2000 ; it be repeal in 2022 , and even now , there be loophole that be still be exploit . so regressive be the rule that people be ban from join the armed force even if they be HIV - negative but be take the HIV prevention drug PrEP . regrettably but not surprisingly , opportunity to revise these rule be miss in 2008 , in 2016 , and yet again in 2019 . even as the british Government accept the " can ' t pass it on " science about people live with HIV in relation to treatment in the year that follow , no change be forthcoming . those who be already serve personnel be label as medically not deployable . it take the Terrence Higgins Trust , the National AIDS Trust and a remarkable Hampshire resident , Lieutenant Commander Oliver Brown MBE , to right this wrong . Oli be cycle through London when a brick hit his bike and he hit a wall . he be take to a London hospital , and — as be finally become custom , due to the last Government and the £ 27 million announce by the Prime Minister last week — he be routinely test for HIV . he discover that he be positive . as his broken arm be be fix , Oli have to come to term with a stigmatise diagnosis and worry not about whether he would live or have his family ' s support but about whether he have a job or a place to live . when he tell his employer , the Royal Navy , he be label and hold back . thankfully , he find similar gut and spirit to those of Craig and fight with Pride , and become a relentless campaigner on this issue . in June 2022 , the rule be finally sweep away not just for the LGBT community , but for anyone live with HIV . day later , the Civil Aviation Authority do the same , and remove all barrier to pilot live with HIV on medication . that be why everyone involve be so surprised that the Military Aviation Authority give itself an extra two month to remove the ban , and the obligation impose then have still not be fully fulfil . People live with HIV be still not able to join the armed force as air crew or controller . it would be a great thing if , off the back of this debate , my hon . friend the Minister commit to investigate this issue , and agree to meet Oliver Brown , the Terrence Higgins Trust and the National AIDS Trust to find a path forward on this issue . we need to turn our military culture from just an absence of ban to one that promote HIV and sexual health testing , with people be encourage to take charge of their sexual health . the military need to be a place where HIV stigma have no home . our amazing HIV charity be on hand to help , and the UK could be the first fast - track military in commit to the goal of zero HIV transmission , zero preventable death and zero HIV stigma . to meet that global goal , we need our armed force to do their bit . if we achieve it , it will be the first time we have stop the onward transmission of any virus without a vaccine or a cure . we can not fail . today be a great day , but the fight for equality be a journey , not a destination . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be very pleased to be able to speak in this debate as one of the newly elect co - chair of LGBT + labour , and it be a great honour to follow a number of hon . member who have give very powerful testimony from veteran . it be very difficult to follow that and to do justice to this issue . there be much interest in this debate and in the review of LGBT veteran . as he mention , my hon . friend the Member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) recently hold an Adjournment debate on this topic . he raise the issue that the ban have cause those who be dismiss , and we have hear about many of those issue in the word of the veteran themselves . People be dismiss under the ban , and there be break family relationship , poor mental health issue and a marginalisation drive by the shame of be throw out of the military . in his debate , my hon . Friend rightly highlight that this have an impact not only on LGBT people , but on those merely suspect of not be heterosexual . it also have an impact on all those serve give the climate of fear and discrimination that it drive within the military . he say in that debate that , as a young gay man , it seem an alien world , but of course this be discrimination not from a century ago , but from our lifetime and within live memory . look at the history of this campaign , which be the focus of much energy in the 1990 , when I be in the early day of my political campaigning , it be worth note that there be an attempt 28 year ago to change the law so that lesbian and gay man could serve in the military . in the debate at that time , the then MP for Liverpool , Garston , Eddie Loyden , intervene on the Minister , who be defend the status quo . as Eddie explain , he be one of the few remain member in the House at that time who have serve through the whole of the second world war . the question he put to the Minister , which I remember watch at the time , be worth repeat . speak of world war two , he say : " I be in no few than seven troop ship carry man and woman to the four corner of the globe to fight on behalf of the nation . there be no question about homosexuality then … if there be a war tomorrow , there would be no discrimination against homosexual or lesbian . they would be drag in just as they be in 1939 . " — [ Official Report , 9 May 1996 ; Vol . 277 , c . 507 . ] of course , there be plenty of discrimination pre - 1967 and at the time of that debate , but Eddie be make the point that this policy be base not just on discrimination , but on hypocrisy . it be hypocrisy in that distinguished service be duly undertake , and be often honour and recognise with medal , only to be disregard and throw aside when the question of someone ' s sexuality be raise . far too many people suffer from that policy , and the opportunity to end it early be lose as the Government of the day assert that it would undermine military effectiveness if LGBT people be allow to serve . my West Ham predecessor in that debate , Tony Banks , be hear to shout " Rubbish ! " at that assertion . he be of course right . someone be a good soldier base on their skill ; bravery and good service be not dependent on someone ' s sexuality . history have since prove that it be rubbish , as over the last 25 year , since the change in the law , the military have continue to operate with distinction and LGBT people have play their part with honour within it . that attempt to alter the law fail , and it take until 2000 for the change to take place , which lead to continue discrimination and suffering for serve personnel , as we have hear . those target lose not only their job but their reputation and rank , and until the 1990 — a quarter of a century after the decriminalisation of homosexuality in civilian life — they face criminal conviction and jail time . it be perhaps worth note how much have change since that debate of 1996 . then we have only one openly gay MP , Chris Smith , and the idea that Parliament would now have so many LGBT mps would have seem impossible to believe . Most of the freedom and privilege that the LGBT community now enjoy be yet to come . indeed , many of they be beyond the possibility of even campaign for . this House have change , the law have change , and society have change too . it have change for the well , but the impact of the policy and the ban have a long tail , and veteran be still deal with it today . that be why Lord Etherton ' s report be so important . this be a live issue that we must resolve , and I welcome the progress we have make as a society and the progress on deliver the recommendation . I very much welcome the announcement by the Secretary of State about the financial redress be make available to veteran . when I speak recently to a veteran they raise the issue of financial redress , as the impact of dismissal from the military have have a big impact on many , some of whom be now of an age when the issue of support be press . it will come as welcome news that we be make further progress on that , and that application will open immediately . we must ensure that all those eligible can easily apply . it be also welcome that veteran will see the restoration of their rank , and their service record amend . I very much welcome the fact that pre - 1967 veteran be also be consider . it be important to ensure that we deliver on all recommendation in the report , so that all those who have serve and face discrimination can now wear their medal and remember their service with honour and pride , and so that we can wipe away the hypocrisy that try to tarnish their service to their country . it be important that we support veteran in that , but also that we work to create a culture of dignity and respect for those veteran , to value they as a society , and to respect their service to their country and expunge the legacy of discrimination . as so many member have already do , we should pay tribute the campaigner who have fight hard for this campaign , many of whom be in the Public Gallery . that include those who stand up and lead the legal campaign of the 1990 , and in more recent time the campaigner from fight with Pride . we be here because of they , and this debate be build on their hard work . we have an opportunity finally to draw the legacy of that shameful policy to a close and place it fully into the dustbin of history . it be an opportunity we have to take . I be grateful that the Government be rise to that challenge , and we must ensure that we rise fully to the need of that community . today be a moment to acknowledge the historical injustice endure by LGBT veteran , and to reaffirm our collective responsibility as a House to right the wrong of the past . I will share a story of one of my constituent , Professor Andrew Hartle , a man whose life epitomise the resilience and achievement of LGBT veteran against the odd . Andrew join the Royal Air Force in the 1980 , full of ambition and a desire to serve his country . his early year in uniform be mark by excellence . he rise swiftly through the rank as a medical officer participate in search and rescue mission and serve in the first Gulf war . but while Andrew be fulfil his duty he be live a double life , weigh down by a constant fear of be discover . at a time when be openly gay in the armed force be not just taboo but illegal , Andrew face an impossible conflict : to live authentically , or to preserve the career he love . in 1996 , Andrew be out in a tabloid newspaper with the horrifying headline , " RAF doc ' s gay fling with an AIDS victim " . Andrew be suspend , subject to demean accusation and eventually force to resign . for seven agonising month , he be leave in limbo , isolate from colleague , forbid to access his NHS place of work and ostracise by an institution he have dedicate his life to serve . Andrew continue to face prejudice throughout his career . NHS administrator demand he take an HIV test against his will . that be just one of many humiliating incident that he experience after leave the military . despite that discrimination , and the obstacle he face , Andrew become the first openly gay consultant anaesthetist , work at St Mary ' s hospital , a world - class hospital serve many of my constituent in Kensington and bayswater . he rebuild his life and career , become a trailblazer in his field and have be a powerful advocate for justice . however , for Andrew and for so many other , the scar inflict by the gay ban remain . as Andrew reflect in his own word : " come out as I do be not my plan … my mental health deteriorate , and I bury the impact of my outing and dismissal . " Andrew be one of the fortunate one , however . he be here with we in the Gallery today , and he speak so powerfully on the radio this morning . many other be not as lucky , so I welcome the Government ' s announcement today that they will move from apology to action . the apology give last year by the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , be long overdue and be right . he be right to describe the ban on LGBT people serve in the military as " an appalling failure of the british state " . — [ Official Report , 19 July 2023 ; Vol . 736 , c . 897 . ] he be right to highlight the abuse , harassment and discrimination that many suffer , but word alone be not enough . this Government have be clear that they will tackle historic injustice head on , from Horizon to Grenfell , and from infected blood to the horrific legacy of the ban on and mistreatment of LGBT veteran . with today ' s announcement , we take a meaningful step forward to support the veteran who suffer at the hand of the british state . I welcome the scheme ' s focus on simplicity and speed of payment , which be vital for veteran who have wait decade for justice . I also welcome the Secretary of State ' s clarification that those reparation will be ringfence , ensure that veteran will not lose access to tax or benefit as a result . this moment would not have be possible without the tireless advocacy of organisation such as fight with Pride , so I thank they for their dedication in support LGBT veteran and for their crucial role in securing today ' s announcement . I also thank Lord Etherton for his review . Andrew ' s story remind we of the immense personal cost of injustice . his courage , perseverance and achievement should inspire we all . Andrew have wait 27 year , but some have wait as long as 50 . tragically , many veteran have die without ever see justice . as we approach 12 January , the 25th anniversary of the lifting of the ban , we must also focus now on the task ahead of we : to locate and support all eligible veteran to come forward and to ensure no one be leave behind . I hope that the Minister for Veterans and People can provide further detail on that strategy in his closing remark . we must honour those who serve in silence , who live in fear , and who be ostracise simply for be themselves and love who they love . that be not merely an act of kindness , but a moral obligation , and I be proud that this government be resolute in their determination to deliver it . I draw the House ' s attention to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be humble by the testimony that have be share by my friend on both side of the Chamber , but I be particularly move by my hon . friend the Member for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) . the testimony that have be share show we how ashamed we should be that our country treat so many people so badly for so long . make no mistake : we have have LGBT people in our armed service for as long as we have have armed service , and I be proud to call many of they my close friend . they have share their harrowing story with I , but what always shine through be their loyalty to their service and their country . today ' s debate make I proud to be a Labour MP . I remember the Labour Government lift the ban on LGBT soldier in 2000 . I celebrate that with my friend . Labour argue for the Etherton review , and I thank Lord Etherton for his work . now , as a Labour MP , I welcome the recommendation . I will fight for every LGBT veteran to get the compensation that they deserve . the historical treatment of our veteran be a moral stain on our nation . it be wrong on every single level . we will never know how many good man and woman be too afraid ever to apply to serve their country , or too afraid ever to come out to this day . so many LGBT soldier have their hope and aspiration cut short despite their commitment to serve our country . they be leave feel ashamed , demoralise and humiliate when they should have be proud , like I be , to be a member of the LGBT community . we can not undo the damage of the past , but we can ensure that those who be affect receive what they be owe . I pay tribute to all the veteran with we today , and to fight with Pride , which have support LGBT veteran for year and push government to do well . I also pay tribute to Kelly Holmes , whose recent personal account be difficult to hear but typical of so many woman I have speak to . I encourage every LGBT veteran to apply to have their rank restore so that they can feel pride again in the service they give to our country . it be time to renew the nation ' s contract with all those who have serve , and deliver Lord Etherton ' s recommendation be just a small part of that . I hope that today be another historic landmark in the fight for equality for LGBT people in this country . I will support any veteran to get the compensation they deserve to restore their dignity and pride for their service for our country . I welcome Lord Etherton ' s review and thank all the organisation and campaign group that contribute to it , include fight with Pride . as my hon . friend the Member for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) rightly say , this be welcome , but it be so late . I also place on the record my thank to my constituent in Suffolk Coastal who raise the issue with I directly and have work for year to support their former military colleague who have suffer at the hand of this abhorrent and humiliating practice . in particular , I thank Kalvyn Friend , who contribute to the review and have engage with I directly on the issue . he and his colleague Terry Skitmore and Simon Wallington be perceive as gay in the ' 90 and late - ' 80 and be treat appallingly as a result . it be important that we acknowledge that there be many former armed service personnel who do not live to see this justice come about . either they die natural death after the ban be remove or , devastatingly , they take their own life . many of those who be still live have attempt to die by suicide or have think to do so . I have hear appal story from campaign group and charity . the Etherton review have expose harrowing story of member of the armed force and how they be treat by the very institution they be prepared to give their life for . I also thank the Royal British Legion , which among other charity and campaign group provide evidence to the review and have highlight story from former veteran — man and woman — who face at good humiliation and at bad degrading and appalling act of intimidation , as well as needless discharge from the armed force . in some case , they face imprisonment and no access to their military pension , as we have hear . I reiterate that the cultural and operational justification for the ban , as describe and endorse by the Ministry of Defence at the time , have rightly be criticise in Lord Etherton ' s report as an " incomprehensible policy of homophobic bigotry " . it be crucial that we learn from those past mistake and that the principle of equality and respect that underpin our society be take forward . in 2002 , I attend Welbeck military college . after I leave , I join the Territorial Army , serve in the Royal Logistics Corps . this be just a few short year after the ban be lift , but the shadow of the policy be still evident . serve personnel be terrify of be find out , still live their life in the shadow . at college , I have teacher and physical training instructor who have live with and live through the ban , have be personally affect by the homophobic policy or have see at first hand how friend and serve colleague have be bully out of the Army and live their life in the shadow . unsurprisingly , many have suffer from mental health problem bring on by live and work in an institution that have previously try to hunt they out for be gay or bisexual . even though the ban be lift by the time I leave Welbeck college and the TA , I see how the culture linger for LGBT colleague . we have hear today that although the ban be lift in 2000 , the culture and the practice be still evident among serve personnel . when I be there , colleague still feel that they have to hide their sexual orientation and that it be still something to be ashamed of . they be not proud or open in the way that we be today and that we take for grant in society now . the impact of this abhorrent practice can not be overstate . the lifelong scar it have have on so many who give so much to our nation be a stain on our military history and more widely on our society . the review rightly recommend that compensation would be an appropriate mean of redress . I be delighted that we have increase the compensation from £ 50 million to £ 75 million . if that have be leave unchanged , it might have equal as little as £ 12 , 500 per claimant . I urge the Government to make sure that the payment be make quickly and without delay . it be important that we do what we can to make sure that the compensation be release quickly to those who deserve it . I welcome this announcement , and once again I thank all those who contribute to the review and who take it forward . the work be do to implement the recommendation will go some way to recognise the past failure of the Ministry of Defence . it be a privilege to participate in this important debate and to hear many moving account from both side of the House . my constituency play a crucial role in our nation ' s defence , rank seventh in the UK for the veteran population . Torpoint , a wonderful town that be home to HMS Raleigh , have the third high number of veteran of any community in the UK , with over 14 % have serve our country . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for today ' s statement , and to Lord Etherton for his crucial work on this topic . I be also grateful to the Minister for Veterans and People for visit Torpoint recently to meet veteran from across the constituency . the visit be an important demonstration of Labour ' s commitment to our armed force and our veteran community . today , we reflect on a deeply regrettable chapter in our history . as we hear , prior to 2000 , be a member of the LGBT + community be consider incompatible with service in the armed force . as a result , LGBT individual — or those perceive to be — could be dismiss or force to leave the military , rob they of career , livelihood and dignity . I welcome the Government ' s announcement of support for our veteran . it be a historic step towards right these wrong . by increase the funding — and , in fact , exceed that recommend by the review — for the LGBT financial recognition scheme , the Government continue to show an unwavering commitment to support our veteran . I acknowledge the brilliant work of fight with Pride to support the wellbeing of LGBT + veteran , armed force personnel and their family . its effort , alongside those of the Royal British Legion , help for Heroes , Stonewall , SSAFA and many other , be invaluable . I have hear from constituent who have be personally affect by this injustice , and I be so grateful to they for their work and for share their story with I . I be immensely proud of our LGBT + serve personnel and veteran from South East Cornwall and across the nation . their resilience , despite the adversity they face , be a testament to their strength and dedication to keep we safe . I look forward to hear from the Minister , and I hope to hear more in due course about the progress be make on this vital topic . I be grateful for your forbearance , Madam Deputy Speaker . I very much welcome the announcement make by the Secretary of State today , although its arrival be almost as late as my own arrival in the Chamber this afternoon , for which I apologise . the ban on LGBT people serve in the armed force until 2000 be a failure of the state ; the delay in announce reparation be another failure , which be in danger of erode the public ' s faith in politic to deliver for people . I see no point in in blame the previous Government . in fact , I commend the work of the previous Government and of Lord Etherton , and of our own Government in bring forward this scheme so swiftly . however , just as we see with the Hillsborough scandal , the infected blood scandal and the Post Office Horizon scandal , we must move more quickly to compensate people . I concur with the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) and for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) , who emphasise that the scheme must be deliver swiftly and in a measured way . a long delay simply prolong the agony of the many veteran who have wait decade for an apology and for the formal financial reparation announce today . I have a constituent , Janice MacIver , who serve in the British Army and be catch up in this dark period of our history in the 1990 , some 30 year ago . from 1992 to 1994 , Ms MacIver serve with the Army Intelligence Corps in Hong Kong and England . there be nothing wrong with her work or her service to the country , but , on 30 June 1994 , she be unceremoniously and dreadfully kick out of the British Army and send back from Hong Kong simply because of who she be . many veteran affect by this scandal have lose their home , health and peace of mind because of the awful treatment mete out to they . Ms MacIver be a resilient individual , as islander tend to be , and she manage to get herself back on her foot . she serve her country in another way , as a police officer , with a career of public service span two decade . however , as we have hear today , some people never make it that far . what be do to Janice MacIver happen 30 year ago , but she be one of the first over the threshold of my Stornoway constituency office when I be elect . what happen to she still sting , still hurt . she do get a letter of apology from the head of the Army , which she appreciate , and a new beret , and the Intelligence Corps be to welcome she back to base in a ceremony next month . it be fantastic that Janice ' s sister be fly from Australia to be with she and support she at that event . the new level of compensation be very welcome , but for Janice and many other veteran , it be not just about the money ; it be about have proper acknowledgment and acceptance that what be do to she — the way she be treat by her country after serve her country — be wrong . this announcement , I hope , will go some way to repair the damage do . I hope that with this , that sad episode will be do and dust , but it ought to be record and acknowledge in Army record and museum . it belong in the past . what happen to Janice and to thousand of other veteran be wrong , which be so evident . it be widely acknowledge , and it be a shame it have take so many year to put it right . however , I be glad of today ' s announcement , and hope that LGBT service personnel and veteran can now say , finally , that they have serve with pride . I call the shadow Secretary of State . with the leave of the House , I be wind up this debate as well as open it , as you can see , Madam Deputy Speaker . there be only two of we , and there be a Bill Committee sit at the same time — there be some thing we can not physically get around in that situation . I be very grateful to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for let I wind up . it enable I to pay tribute to some incredible speech today , all of they move , in which member have share the many traumatic case of their constituent . they underline exactly why the Government have make this announcement today , base on the review that we launch in government . some specific theme be raise . the hon . member for Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven ( Chris Ward ) speak of time run out . the hon . member for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Elaine Stewart ) also speak about the issue of time and the urgency of get this resolve . my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Jenny Riddell - Carpenter ) , speak of how she want to see payment get out quickly and without delay . I be sure we all agree and echo that sentiment . I be sure the Minister will provide clarity where he can , in particular on the second payment , the LGBT impact payment , which will presumably have a long process give the presence of the panel . perhaps he could give some indication of the timing he expect in that regard . the hon . member for South East Cornwall ( Anna Gelderd ) remind I that we should thank our serve LGBT personnel and not just talk about veteran . of course , they serve in a very different military and a very different military culture . we wish they well and thank they for their public service . there be many move case mention . what strike I in particular be the reminder of the impact — literally , the impact — on those people concerned . the hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Alison Bennett ) speak about the case of a constituent who be imprison . in the case mention by the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tom Rutland ) , they be put in a psychiatric ward because of be LGBT . my hon . friend the Member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) speak about his constituent attempt suicide and be sexually assault . the hon . member for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock say that we deny people their freedom while they be defend ours . I paraphrase , but I think that be an excellent statement . there be other case which we might say have some kind of happy ending , or at least they go on to do other thing which we should honour . the hon . member for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) speak about the very moving case of someone who I understand be in the Gallery . Gunner Ashton obviously have a very difficult experience , but then go on to carry the banner of the Royal British Legion at the Royal Albert Hall remembrance evening . I be at the most recent one and it be an incredible occasion , so I pay tribute to she . the hon . member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) speak about a constituent who become a very senior clinician . we hear from the hon . gentleman for the Western Isles , if he do not mind I call it that — the hon . member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) — who speak about his constituent who obviously suffer a great trauma but become a police officer . he call it the resilience of islander . I think we have see that resilience in other case speak of today . the hon . member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) say that she believe there have be LGBT soldier ever since we have have an army . again , I paraphrase , but she be probably absolutely right — although , of course , Lord Etherton have not quite go back that far in his review . echo that theme , the hon . member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) , in a very enjoyable speech , make the point that so many would have serve in world war two . we should remember that and pay tribute to they , because that sacrifice give we our freedom which mean we be here today . he also make a very good point , which I think I make in my opening speech . when we talk about military skill and the bravery of people who serve in our armed force with distinction , those feature be irrelevant to background and sexuality . that be a very good point indeed . the hon . member for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) , who I believe be a former RAF policeman , make the point that the RAF have change significantly . it be important that he mention that point . the hon . member for Aldershot ( Alex Baker ) , along with the hon . member for Kensington and bayswater , remind we of the importance of the HIV issue and the additional associate stigma in that regard . she make the laudable point of call for zero HIV stigma in the armed force today . I wonder whether the Minister would want to comment on that . finally , the hon . member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) have an Adjournment debate recently on this subject , so he exemplify the great persistence we have see from a number of colleague in this House on this subject . a few be not here at the moment , which may be because of a slightly premature end , but hopefully they will see in Hansard that I have pay tribute to their speech . there be lot of excellent contribution . I will conclude by say this : as the Secretary of State say in his opening speech , in addition to implement the recommendation of Lord Etherton ' s review , we must ensure we thoroughly learn the lesson of this deeply sorry and regrettable episode in our defence history . they be two separate thing and it be crucial we do both . terrible thing be wholly unjustifiably inflict on brave and committed service personnel with lifelong repercussion for those affect , as we have hear from case up and down the country . it be incumbent on all of we to reflect on this have happen in our country . all those who put themselves forward for service must be treat with the dignity and respect that they deserve . we should all share in the mission to correct this historic wrong , because we all know that every person affect will have share equally the same value of freedom , patriotism and public service as anyone else in the armed force . today we salute they , and , as far as we be able , we take far significant step to restore full and formal recognition of the role of LGBT veteran serve our country . what a debate we have have today . we have hear some exceptionally harrowing and , indeed , inconceivable story of event that have take place in our lifetime . on that note , and on behalf of the Ministry of Defence , I wish to apologise to all those affect by the ban . the way in which the MOD mistreat LGBT personnel between 1967 and 2000 be a flame injustice that have burn for more than five decade . it be an injustice that be acknowledge by Lord Etherton ' s excellent report last year , and , as I say during our debate six week ago , it be an injustice that put the MOD on the wrong side of history . it be an injustice that the last Government work to heal , with the support of member in all part of the House , and for that we thank they . when the scheme open tomorrow at 09 : 00 hour and we finally begin the important process of offer financial recognition of the pain cause , we will turn a page and start a new chapter in defence history . this Government have take the decision to increase the amount that can be disburse by the scheme by 50 % more than the plan that we inherit . not only will those dismiss or discharge from service receive a payment ; those who be impact more broadly by the ban will do so too . however , it be important to acknowledge at the outset that no amount of money can undo the hurt and pain cause , and no process can genuinely quantify the impact on earning . this be a financial acknowledgment of wrongdoing and regret by the state , and while I know that it will not fully satisfy all , I hope that it will help to bring affirmation , and some closure , to those affect . the scheme will also address two more of Lord Etherton ' s 49 recommendation — include rank restoration and rewrite those record — leave just seven to be complete , which remain a major priority . I thank all member on both side of the House for their comment and the harrowing story that they relate , and I will now try to address some of their specific question . let I say first to my hon . friend the Member for Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven ( Chris Ward ) that we be work exceptionally hard with fight with Pride and 10 other charity to ensure that we advertise this scheme as broadly as possible across the community . indeed , this debate itself be one way to get that message out . we have 24 month of the recognition scheme , primarily because of the prerogative power but also follow the recommendation of Lord Etherton ' s report . we have allocate £ 90 , 000 to help charity to assist the veteran with their application , because we acknowledge that some of the process may not be as simple as other . we be also ask for a reverse burden of proof on the access of the £ 25 million financial total . predict the number of case that will come forward will be exceptionally difficult : experience will differ , time serve will differ , and therefore the amount of recognition will differ as well . as we hear from the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) , face the Treasury be perhaps much safe than face the enemy . nevertheless , I thank those in the Treasury , and the broad team in the Ministry of Defence , for work so hard — champion by the Secretary of State for Defence — to deliver the extra £ 25 million , a 58 % increase on what we have previously . speed of delivery be essential , and we have go for both speed and breadth : the speed to deliver the scheme as fast as feasibly possible , and the breadth to ensure that compensation be deliver to all those affect by the ban , both dismiss and discharge . those who may have be impact by the ban , but not necessarily record — this be mention by the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) — will also be able to apply for these resource . we appreciate the comment of the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , as well as his work prior to our come into government . I hope that LGBT veteran now feel , more than ever before , part of the veteran family , thank primarily to the restorative measure in Lord Etherton ' s report , which have go so far to deliver that . we have now implement 42 of those 49 recommendation , and I think we will close they out by 2027 . responsibility for some of they do not sit with the Government , but we be work hard with the Office for Veterans ’ Affairs and other Government Departments to close they out as quickly as possible . I will cover two of the point raise by the hon . member for Aberdeen North and my hon . friend the Member for Brighton Kemptown and peacehaven now , but will address other later . overseas applicant can apply ; the scheme be open to everyone . we will have a look at the geographical spread of charitable support . although we do not have a huge amount of control over it , we will ensure that it be balanced and will work with the Office for Veterans ' Affairs to deliver it . my hon . friend the Member for Aldershot ( Alex Baker ) mention the important subject of HIV . I can confirm that we be on the case . although there be no blanket ban on HIV - positive personnel fly in the armed force , the Government be absolutely committed to ensure that our policy that impact on people with HIV be regularly review . I and the Minister for the Armed Forces in particular be closely consider HIV policy relate to aircrew , and we will get back to my hon . friend in due course . my hon . friend the Member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) , and the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) , for Aberdeen North and for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) mention a concern about the cap . the financial recognition scheme be a response to a gross injustice — we acknowledge that . it be design to be a tangible acknowledgment of wrongdoing and regret , and be never intend to compensate for loss of earning , but I accept that there will always be people who feel , for good reason , that we have not go far enough . a North Cornwall constituent of mine be attend the debate from the Public Gallery but have have to leave because of the outrage that he feel . do the Minister agree that great financial compensation should be give to veteran such as my constituent , who suffer such enormous harm , include gang rape and severe physical assault that result in lifetime disability ? I thank the hon . member for that question . we have try to balance demand for individual circumstance to be fully recognise on a case - by - case basis with the demand for speedy resolution . we have arrive at amount that reflect the practice of relevant employment tribunal , and payment make for harm and suffering in the service complaint process , which also align with similarly sized payment award by the scheme in Canada . although government scheme of this type will always cause debate — I acknowledge that — we have do our good to be fair and balanced , use figure base on relevant precedent and a process that will reflect individual circumstance within a framework design to avoid delay and ensure fairness across that cohort . it be probably worthwhile to dig into that in a little more detail to provide the House with answer . the LGBT dismiss or discharge payment for veteran who be dismiss or discharge base solely on their sexual orientation or gender identity under the ban will be a flat rate of £ 50 , 000 . the LGBT impact payment be open to all those who experience any pain and suffering directly relate to the ban , include bullying and harassment , invasive investigation and , of course , imprisonment . those who be dismiss and discharge can also apply for that payment . the LGBT impact payment will be assess by an independent panel against three tariff — £ 1 , 000 to £ 5 , 000 , £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 000 and £ 10 , 000 to £ 20 , 000 — up to a maximum of £ 20 , 000 , to ensure that award be proportionate to the level of impact . we hear several question , particularly from my hon . friend the Member for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) , about why the measure have take so long . today have be more than 50 year in the making . I totally agree that veteran have wait far too long for this recognition of historical injustice . however , since come into government , we have move exceptionally fast . this Government have a bias for action . we come into Government in July , listen to fight with Pride and the LGBT veteran , inform and update the House and colleague last month , and design a broad and rapid payment scheme , and at 0900 tomorrow , that scheme will open and deliver . we also have some question about the impact of loss of earning , particularly to do with pension . it be worth note that this be not a compensation scheme and have not be design as such . with such a variety of experience and personal circumstance within the affected community , and with limited evidence available , it be difficult to estimate how long each veteran would have serve if not for the ban and what rank they might have reach . finally , on the question about Lord Etherton ' s recommendation : two be for the Ministry of Defence to implement and five be for the national health service to address . my team be in touch with the Department of Health and Social Care as we move that forward . as various member mention , it be worth note the broad non - financial restorative measure that be take place . there be 719 application already , which be fantastic . in practice , this mean everything from apology letter send directly to individual from the chief of the Army , the Royal Navy and the Air Force , through to medal and beret , ensure that these veteran feel include as part of the veteran community . when I join the Royal Marines in 1999 , this abhorrent ban on homosexuality in the armed force be still in place . today , a quarter of a century later , we turn a page on that shameful chapter in our national story . the financial recognition scheme be an acknowledgment by the state that it be wrong . while I accept that many veteran will continue to feel that it do not go far enough , the scheme be another vindication of the harm and pain they have suffer , and vindication for all those who stand against the ban . I urge everyone affect by these past failing to access the financial recognition scheme and other restorative measure by visit the LGBT veteran support page on the gov . uk website . on this page , they will find a simple guide explain how to apply for financial recognition payment , which include detail of the scheme , eligibility and the support document require . there be simple screenshot of what to expect when apply , and the application form have be streamline to make the process straightforward and user - friendly to ensure that veteran can apply with as much ease as possible . I thank Lord Etherton for his outstanding work on this report . I also thank the LGBT community and the charity that support it , particularly fight with Pride , for their courage and continue effort to bring this to a resolution . they have engage comprehensively throughout the programme , with both the MOD team and I . I have an old saying from combat : " courage be a decision , not a reaction . " few have be so courageous as those watch this debate today . to stand up , to struggle to your foot when everyone be try to push you down , and to shout when everyone be try to silence you — that be an active decision , and perhaps the most courageous decision of all . they should stand proud from here on out . the debate today and the speed at which we have work — the fact that from tomorrow at 0900 the scheme will open — be a credit to all those who have work on the team . it also reaffirm that this Government be a Government of action . indeed , we have a bias for action , and the Defence Secretary and I will continue to drive this forward until every recommendation of Lord Etherton ' s review be implement to right the wrong of the past . to the individual affect — Victoria , Craig , Danny , Claire , Andrew and Janice , to name but a few — we apologise . we hope that this will go some way through the healing process . in line with Claire Ashton and my hon . friend the Member for Shrewsbury , we want to ensure that every veteran who have help to keep Britain secure receive the respect and support they deserve . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider Lord Etherton ' s independent review into the treatment of LGBT veteran . SEND provision : autism and ADHD Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to address this critical issue that affect so many family and carer , not just in my constituency but across the country . I rise to speak up for all those who feel they be not be hear and to speak about the crisis in the provision of special educational need and disability support , particularly for child and young people with autism spectrum disorder or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder . this crisis be fail child and young people , their family and carer , the professional who support they , and society as a whole . before I proceed , I thank all the courageous parent and carer who have take the time to tell I their story . some of they have come to Westminster today to be with we in the Gallery . I pay special tribute to the staff from school in my constituency , include Bassingbourn , Melbourn and Hauxton primary school , who have take the time to attend this critically important debate and be with we in the Gallery . I be privileged to meet staff at Bassingbourn primary school , where I witness at first hand the inspire work undertake by dedicated and caring professional , who be create safe space , such as the hub . I see for myself the calm and trust relationship build with student , and hear about the difference that the hub make for student . rather than spiral into disruptive behaviour or not even be able to make it through the door to registration some day , student be now seek out the hub as a space to ready themselves for registration or to take time out before go back to class . the headteacher , staff and the SEND co - ordinator go above and beyond , often make miracle happen on very limited budget . however , let I share the word of one dedicated professional from my constituency , so that the House can hear what the current crisis be lead to . she say : " on a daily basis I be set up , deliver and help other Teaching Assistants to deliver bespoke curriculum for child with SEND as they be mostly educate outside the class of their peer . we do not have a special unit for they , we be just accommodate they as well we can in quieter area of the school , include corridor , because they be not able to work in the noise and business of a primary classroom . the need of these child vary though they all need 1 : 1 ta to help they and other stay safe , regulated and learn throughout the day . at present we have two non - verbal child with an Autism diagnosis who , year ago , you would not have expect to see in a mainstream school . up until this week I have believe that I be do the right thing try to make sure they be happy and secure and genuinely learn and make progress with we . " that professional be now question the very fundamental of her profession as a result of the heartbreaking experience of those child when they be face key transition : start school , primary to secondary , get to 18 , 18 to 25 and afterwards . one of the child she have be work with be exclude a few day after start secondary school because their behaviour be not manageable . in her word : " it break my heart to hear from her Mum what she have go through in such a short time in mainstream Secondary and I know at once that she must have be so frightened to have behave as she do . the child be subsequently at home for most of the remain school year receive education from a tutor pay for by the Local Authority — after her parent fight hard and demand it — and then be finally give a place at their local special school in the summer . what I now understand be that the broken system mean that a child have to fail in a very distressing way before they be give the provision they need . I could not sit by and see another child I have know for many year go down the same path with all the knowledge of how damaging the experience will be for they without say something about it ! " the account the hon . Lady be give be incredibly powerful and I be really grateful that she have choose to share it with the House . as somebody who be teach math at a secondary school until a few month before the general election , I can state that the situation she describe , while certainly not unusual , be not universal to all school . I be pleased to report that despite the stress that be put on school by the previous Government , we teacher do all we could in secondary education setting to ensure there be an inclusive education for those with SEND . do she agree that with the change of Government , we have see a change in direction and intention , and hopefully we will see the win for SEND student that they so desperately deserve ? absolutely ; I be here to pay tribute , as be everybody , to what teacher be do , both with regard to the failure of the previous Government and with the current situation . let we get to what be happen with the current Government . every child deserve access to education to get the good start in life and build a strong foundation that can provide valuable skill that allow they to thrive . that be not the case for all child across the country and particularly not for those with autism spectrum disorder and ADHD . every professional I have speak to agree that early diagnosis and support be essential . in respect of early diagnosis and onward support , in my constituency of Congleton we have two specific problem . first , although some child receive a diagnosis under the right to choose pathway on the NHS , other , often from more deprived background , face considerably long wait than they would under that pathway . the impact of that on those child concern I very much . secondly , Cheshire East council sometimes go for period of time when it close the education , health and care plan application pathway to new entrant because it be so overwhelmed by the number of application it already have . both those be serious issue for child in my constituency , and I thank the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire for secure this debate and give I the opportunity to air they . do she agree that it be a huge improvement to have a Government who be integrate SEND support and that there be so much more that we be all look to do ? I will come on to what I think be a postcode lottery . we see regional disparity in the care and provision give , so I thank the hon . member for raise that point . for many , the wait to get assessment for education , health and care plan can be month , if not year . Lord Darzi ' s investigation of the NHS in England note , " waiting list for community service and mental health have surge . " the report also mention how " demand for assessment for ADHD and Autism have grow exponentially in recent year " , with child disproportionately represent among they . recent research find that 200 , 000 child in England be struggle to get an education , health and care plan . that be 200 , 000 family leave in uncertainty , desperate for help and struggle without the support they need . Cambridgeshire currently have 8 , 033 student with ehcp — a 51 % increase in the last five year — and of those , 2 , 593 plan primarily address autism spectrum disorder . indeed , I be tell by the chief executive of Cambridgeshire county council that there have be an increase of 270 % in the number of child present with autism . request for education , health and care need assessment have rise fast than the national average . why ? we think that be drive by great awareness of SEND and the statutory responsibility of local authority , the impact of the covid pandemic and the overall increase in mental health issue for child , even at a very young age . those number help to underline the scale of the issue , but we should not get draw purely into statistic and figure , because behind every number and every percentage there be a child , a family or a sibling be fail every single day . I come to the issue of disparity that the hon . member for Congleton ( Mrs Russell ) mention . family who can afford to seek private neurodevelopmental assessment tend to receive help much fast than those who be reliant on public service . for the rest , it be a postcode lottery . NHS England datum reveal stark regional disparity in waiting time for diagnosis . for example , the north - west region have the long average wait of three year and four month , from referral to diagnosis . we therefore have a health inequality element to this too , as certain group of child be less likely to have their need identify or meet , punish just because of where they live . for some child , mainstream school be simply not suitable , and parent and carer bear the brunt of that reality , manage reduce timetable , endure repeat exclusion and watch their child receive only a few hour of education each day . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for bring this important debate to the House . follow on from her comment about mainstream education , one of my first job after leave university be as a teaching assistant . I also spend a year in a special need school . do she agree that the issue we be see be partly the result of the lack of recognition and appreciation over the last 14 year for support staff in mainstream school and of the role that they play in ensure that every child have a decent education ? I could not concur more . over the past decade or more , we see chronic under - investment from the Conservative Government , despite the need have be recognise in statute , and that have leave we in this pressure point situation . we be now see the result of that . I have also be tell that this be a time bomb , because we will see the impact in the future in the quality of life , in opportunity , in the NHS and in social service — in all service really — if we do not deal with this situation . I have also be tell about the situation for sibling . when a child be not give the support that they need in school , young carer sibling be often draw out of their class and ask to be with their sibling during their lunch break or lesson . there be an impact on all those affect . on that point about young carer , do my hon . friend agree that , at the moment , school struggle to recognise how many young carer be on their roll ? do she think that the Department for Education would be wise to look at well way of measure the number of young carer and give school the toolkit to identify they ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . the Carers Trust have provide we with these story and point out that we really need to collect this evidence . it would be easy to point the finger at local council and say that this be their failure , but , as we have say , they be stretch to their limit by a chronic lack of funding . we have hear that f40 , the cross - party local authority campaign group , have estimate that an additional £ 4 . 6 billion of annual SEND revenue be require to meet the current need , yet most of our county council face a black hole in their budget . one issue be the training and retention of educational psychologist , because they and council worker be overwhelmed . turnover rate be high and burnout be common , which lead to an exacerbation of those waiting list . I thank the hon . member for allow I to intervene again ; I appreciate it . Cheshire have some of the low per - pupil funding in the country . there be a direct link between school that receive relatively low level of funding and council that have relatively high level of SEND diagnose , because there be not the same support in mainstream classroom as when there be high staffing ratio , which we find in area that have well funding . we need to look at equalise that funding as well we can in the current environment to improve support at an early stage , as the hon . Lady be mention . I agree with the hon . member . my constituency of South Cambridgeshire also have among the low per - pupil funding , which exacerbate the fact that , even though we have ehcp , most of they be not fund to the amount that be require for each of those student . that compound the situation that our amazing school be try to deal with . let I return to educational psychologist . Cambridgeshire county council have 17 . 5 budget educational psychologist role , but 6 . 4 remain vacant due to a national shortage and the fact that psychologist can get well pay in other job and other place . we be see an inability to fill those role and to support psychologist . the Liberal Democrats be call for a national body for SEND to end the postcode lottery face by family of child with the high need . that would include look at immediate Government action to prioritise early diagnosis and support for child with SEND , and to increase funding for diagnostic service . one concern be that many child end up be out of education because they be not get the support that they need in school . do she agree that it be an outrage that , in that situation , some parent face prosecution ? do she also agree that we need to provide support for child to receive an education , whether in school or through alternative provision , and that we should record that in a well way ? at the moment we have authorise and unauthorised absence . we do not record the fact that some child be miss school because their parent do not believe that they be receive the support that they need . I thank my hon . friend for raise one of the complex issue around this provision . while we support the current Government ' s additional allocation of funding to this critical area , we really want they to look at the fact that it be not just about mainstream provision ; it be also about specialist provision . as she say , we must look at all type of provision , because this be complex . even if support be give in mainstream school , it be often on very reduced timetable , which mean that parent and carer be unable to work and be productive for society , because they be either cover the space in that provision , unauthorised or otherwise , in other setting , or cover for the time when the school can not provide timetable support . I return to what the Liberal Democrats think we should have : a national SEND body , an urgent increase in diagnostic service , action to address the chronic lack of educational psychologist , target resource for local authority to improve their capacity , support for our school and for more special school place , and interim support measure for child await diagnosis so that they do not fall through the crack . the Lib Dems have always say that we need mental health professional in every school . it be great to hear the Government talk about mental health professional in secondary school . we have hear about the need in primary school , so let we get in there early too . a capacity for early diagnosis and management mean , as somebody say to I , in the word of Desmond Tutu , that we can stop pull people out of the river , and instead stop they fall in the river in the first place . once again , I pay tribute to all the amazing parent and carer who have speak to I , and the amazing teacher , headteacher and SEND co - ordinator who be work in this area . the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire ( Pippa Heylings ) end with the word of Desmond Tutu , and I could not agree more . I congratulate she on secure this debate on an incredibly important subject , and I congratulate hon . member on their valuable contribution to it . I know that , as a former teacher , she be really aware of the critical role that education play in break down barrier to opportunity , and how vital it be that we get our education and health service right to support the most vulnerable in our society . she describe incredibly eloquently and powerfully the difference that good , inclusive education provision can make , and the significant challenge in provide it . she also mention the challenge that many child face at transition point , which can undermine some of the incredible work that teacher be perform up and down the country , as my hon . friend the Member for Leeds South West and Morley ( Mr Sewards ) rightly point out . like other present , the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire will have be inundate with letter and email from concerned family in her constituency . I be sure she have be help they to navigate the incredibly challenging special educational need and disability system . so many of we be face with this issue , which be why we need to reform the system . it be a priority for the Government . we want all child , regardless of where they be in the country , to receive the right support to succeed in their education and lead happy , healthy and productive life . in far too many case , we have simply lose the confidence of family that child with special educational need and disability will be support , because they be be fail by every measure . despite high need funding for child and young people with very complex special educational need and disability rise to high and high level , the system be simply not deliver the outcome that those child deserve , so we desperately need to reform the system . our message to family be that we be committed to improve the SEND system and regain their confidence . I completely agree with the Minister ' s comment . part of ensure that we provide the correct support to child be ensure that the education , health and care plan assessment process be effective . I be tell by a charity worker in my constituency of Dewsbury and Batley that 95 % of appeal in Kirklees against a conclusion that SEND support be not need be successful . do she agree that this be a terrible waste of council resource , and that EHCP assessment must be do properly and get right the first time , so that child can be give support as soon as possible ? I absolutely recognise the challenge the hon . Gentleman have outline , but it very much speak to the point I be make , which be that we have publish independently commission insight that suggest that if the education system as a whole be extensively improve , and if we have much well early intervention , which the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire rightly refer to , and well resource within mainstream school , that could lead to ten of thousand more child and young people have their need meet without an education , health and care plan . their need would be meet within a mainstream system and with their peer , without need a specialist placement . clearly , we need specialist place for child with the most complex need , but to ensure we have those place , we need to improve inclusivity and expertise within mainstream school , while ensure that those special school and place can cater to child with the most complex need . I come back to the hon . Lady ' s point about transition point for young people and how important it be for the whole system to be reform . it be not good enough to reform just part of it , and for that great work to then be undo when a child or young person move on to a new educational setting that do not provide the right support and environment for they . my point be that this situation be huge and complex . there be not a magic wand , and there be no overnight quick fix , but we be determined to change it , and we can not do it alone . we need to work in partnership to achieve this . I thank the Minister for her response . so much could be say about special educational need across the country and in my constituency of Mid Sussex . the Minister mention how we all as member of this place be undoubtedly try our good to help family navigate the special educational need system . I be sorry to say that when family come to I and I ask , " how can I help you ? " , they say , " we don ' t think you can help we . we just want you to witness and listen to what we be say , " because the system be so broken . I meet the family of Annabel in Mid Sussex . she have be out of school for several year , have be section and have have multiple suicide attempt because her autism be not be manage in the schooling system . her family just want I to bear witness to they , and I be so sorry that there be not more that we as parliamentarian can do . the hon . Lady have bear witness today to that family and young person face that challenge . it be vital that we work together with parent , school , council , the health sector and expert staff , who we know go above and beyond to support child within education setting to achieve the change that be clearly desperately need . the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire specifically focus the debate on support for autistic child and young people and those with ADHD . she will know from the work she have undertake that we be see significant increase in the number of child and young people identify as autistic or with ADHD , and that be something we share in common with other country around the world . we know family be face significant challenge and that support need to be in place , as she outline , to ensure that those child can thrive in school . we absolutely recognise the long waiting time across the NHS for autism and ADHD assessment , and we be work to address they . as the hon . Lady identify , we need to ensure that mainstream school and college can identify those need and put support in place early , because the early a child get the support and right environment in which to learn , the more chance that they will thrive and that some of the challenge they face will be mitigate . ensure that we have knowledgeable professional in our school and college be a key part of this . all teacher be teacher of pupil with special educational need and disability , but we need to make sure those teacher have the skill and support to help all pupil succeed . as such , we be implement a range of teacher training reform that begin with initial teacher training and continue through early career teaching to middle and senior leadership . we have a universal SEND service contract , which provide SEND - specific course and professional development for school and college staff . through that contract , the Autism Education Trust offer a range of training and support for staff on how to support autistic child and young people . the contract begin in May 2022 , and over 200 , 000 professional have receive training from the Autism Education Trust and training partner . on 1 September 2024 , this Government introduce a new mandatory leadership - level national professional qualification for senco . we be make the change , but it will take time for they to work through . our partnership for inclusion of neurodiversity in school programme be also run in around 10 % of school , which be approximately 1 , 600 mainstream primary school setting . it be deploy specialist from both the health and education workforce and build well teaching and staff capacity to identify the need of neurodivergent child . it provide opportunity to enhance support and improve outcome for all child , take a whole - school approach . it be a cross - Government programme back by £ 13 million of investment , and it be a collaboration between the Department of Health and Social Care , the Department for Education and NHS England . additionally , we have just establish a neurodivergence task and finish group , bring together a group of expert from various background to help we understand how to improve inclusivity in mainstream school in a way that work for neurodivergent child and young people . we know that listen to child and young people and their family and understand their experience be a really important part of this work . that group meet for the first time this week , and I look forward to see their recommendation on the good way that we can support these child ' s need . this be happen alongside our expert advisory group on inclusion and the work be do by Dame Christine Lenehan , our new strategic adviser on SEND . we be look at all of these issue strategically across Government , as we urgently need to turn this situation around . I could go into the detail of high need funding , but I be very conscious of time . I appreciate the concern that have be raise about the national funding formula . we prioritise speed over change this year — we need to get the formula process and out to school and educational institution — but we will obviously keep it under review to make sure the money be be spend in the most effective way to deliver the good outcome for child . we have also allocate £ 740 million for high need capital funding to support mainstream school to adapt , if need , to create more inclusive mainstream setting . I thank the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire again for bring this matter forward . ensure that effective support be in place for young people be absolutely a priority of this Government . we know the hardship that far too many family have face , and my final word of thank go to all those work in the interest of our child in our health , education and care system . we will deliver the good for our child and young people , and I be confident that together we can achieve that . question put and agree to . House adjourn .