I want to thank those who elect I as the first MP for the new Ely and East Cambridgeshire constituency , although I follow in the liberal footstep of Clement Freud and other before he . I congratulate the hon . member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Irene Campbell ) on make her first speech to this House ; her constituency sound almost , but not quite , as beautiful as mine . I also congratulate the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) on his first speech . my mum be a member of " the turnover club " and I become an honorary member when I come to this House because I feel I need to check the saucer so that I could report back to she ; so I understand where the hon . Gentleman be come from . Ely and East Cambridgeshire contain part of the old North East Cambridgeshire constituency and most of South East Cambridgeshire . I thank the right hon . member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) for be so helpful in pass over casework from constituent and I thank Lucy Frazer KC for represent South East Cambridgeshire and in particular for support the much - need upgrade to Ely rail junction . I be disappointed to hear nothing about fund for that in the Budget . we all want economic growth for this country and the Government need to help we fix Ely junction if we be to get freight to and from the port and allow we to have that growth . I be a chartered accountant so I know that the business case be unanswerable and I urge the Chancellor to put the funding for the Ely junction upgrade in the spring spending review . my constituent have a range of occupation : we have farmer , we have people in horseracing , and we have cut - edge technology . go back to the comment of the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent North , I be amazed to be invite to accompany Almath Crucibles to receive the King ' s award for innovation — people have be make crucible for 8 , 000 year , yet it have come up with an innovation , which , as an archaeologist , I find utterly amazing . I be also amazed to look at how they make those crucible in my constituency ; they make they with fantastic material , but they do so in a way that our parent would recognise from the pottery industry . it be stunning . we be also a beautiful constituency , with an amazing natural environment . we have chalk grassland , wetland peat and the River Great Ouse run through it all . over the century , people have add thing : have ditch , dyke and lode that help control the water in the fen ; and the Devil ' s dyke , which run from my home village of Reach through to Woodditton , a beautiful , probably late Saxon earthwork and a chalk grassland . watch over all that , we have the " ship of the fen " , which many say be one of the good cathedral in Europe . personally , I think it be the good but I would not claim to be an expert in cathedral . the National Trust be do a lot of work near I with Wicken fen , as it have a vision to enlarge the wetland peat area to protect the biodiversity that depend on it and , as we hear in an early debate , capture the carbon that be within . I be lucky enough to visit recently , and be promise that we might see a kingfisher . we do indeed see that beautiful kingfisher go back and forth across the river . it be fantastic . however , there be some downside to my constituency . it be very expensive to buy or rent a home , which be price out young people and family . the median price of a house in my constituency be 11 time the average salary , and the rental market follow on from that , basically . it be unaffordable for many people . on top of that , a lot of our affordable housing be badly insulate , and people rely on oil for their heating . across my constituency , there be family who can not afford to heat their home . as the Government be rebuild Britain , which I hope that we can do , they should ensure that home be build that be affordable for people to live in — not just home that have an affordable price or rent but that be energy - efficient so that they be cheap to run . we must also ensure that we have the infrastructure and support around those home , whether that be doctor , dentist , school , green space or water . we need to have all those thing . on the subject of dentist , Ely and East Cambridgeshire be a dental desert . I be horrified to say that people can not get on an NHS dental list in my constituency . that have to change . I have meet people who have spend their life saving on dental treatment or people who , for heaven ' s sake , have do it themselves . it be horrendous and we have to address it . my great - grandfather grow up in the workhouse around Stoke - on - Trent . my parent be the first people in their family to go to university , and they always bring I up to believe that I could do anything I want as long as I work hard on it . I first stand for Parliament in 1987 , and mum and dad help I with that campaign . sadly , my dad die a few year ago , but my mum support my election campaign this year , and I know that dad would have be really pleased to see I elect to this House , just as mum be . I now have to correct an error I make on election night . I do not expect to win , so I have not write a victory speech . I remember most of the people I have to thank but , as my husband and my child have repeatedly remind I since , I forget to thank they , so I be delighted to put on record , and in Hansard no less , my thank to my husband , Jon , and my child , David and Kathryn , for their unswerve support and encouragement . this might sound a bit odd , but I also need to thank Fosters mill , which be a 19th - century windmill in Swaffham Prior that be still go strong . its Prior ' s oats fuel my campaign and now give I a breakfast boost each morning to get I through the day . I have to thank my agent Lorna Dupr é for run a wonderful campaign and all my campaign team for deliver leaflet and do all the canvassing . Most of all , I want to thank the people of Ely and East Cambridgeshire for engage in the conversation and put their trust in I to be their MP . I will do my utmost to make sure that their voice be hear in this House . I will also try to be the very good local MP possible .