prayer the Clerk at the table have inform the House of the unavoidable absence , through illness , of the Speaker from the sitting of the House this week , the Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . oral Answers to Questions Environment , Food and Rural Affairs the Secretary of State be ask — Food Waste what step his Department be take to help reduce food waste . the UK be an international leader in tackle food waste , which have fall by 17 % since 2007 or the equivalent of 26 kg per person . this year , over £ 2 million will go to our food waste prevention programme and we have a groundbreake industry initiative , help to redistribute more food than ever before . as I understand it , a third of all food be waste , which contribute around 9 % of greenhouse emission and cost our economy about £ 20 billion a year . will the Secretary of State consider introduce policy that reduce food waste across the supply chain , such as improve food waste report from industry , so that we can target , measure and act on food waste for the sake not only of our economy , but our planet ? my hon . friend raise an extremely important point . some 60 % of food waste be waste in the home , but the Courtauld commitment include a groundbreake voluntary agreement with industry that have double the amount of food redistribute in the last two year . as the Secretary of State rightly say , if we be go to reduce food waste , that start with everybody participate , include people at home and retail business . in Strangford , Asda , Tesco and Lidl all redistribute food waste to local community group before it go bad and become unpalatable . do the Secretary of State welcome that ? it underline the fact that everyone need to participate in the reduction of food waste , start with the supermarket , people in their house and the government ? the hon . Gentleman be right that the issue apply to all party , which be why we fund Love Food Hate Waste and the Food Waste Action Week campaign to raise awareness . food waste be down 17 % since 2007 and we have double the amount of food redistribute since 2019 , so significant progress have be make , but there be more to do and those information campaign play a key role in get that message across . question 2 be in the name of Bob Blackman , but I see that he be not present . will the Minister answer Question 7 , which be group with it ? fly - tip what step his Department be take to tackle fly - tipping . the Government ' s fly - tipping grant be help council across the country put a stop to fly - tipping at hotspot , by spend £ 1 . 2 million on the issue and a furth £ 1 million will be award in the spring . in July , we increase the maximum penalty council can issue from £ 400 to £ 1 , 000 . from April , all income from those penalty will be reinveste in enforcement and clean up fly - tipping in local area . I welcome the Minister to his place . fly - tipping be a huge problem across North Warwickshire and Bedworth , with thousand of incident every year , particularly in rural area where the farming community be leave to bear the brunt of many of the cost . we be lucky to have a dedicated rural crime team , who do amazing work help to tackle the issue , but will the Minister give an update on the progress of the national rural crime unit in tackle the scourge on our community ? I be very happy to pay tribute to the dedicated Warwickshire rural crime team , which do fantastic work in that area , and especially to Carol Cotterill , who lead on it . the Government be fund a new fly - tip post in the national rural crime unit to optimise the role that the police can take in tackle fly - tipping in rural area . we have also confirm reform to waste carrier registration , the introduction of digital waste tracking , and the abolition of DIY local waste tip . do the Minister agree that a real problem with fly - tipping be skip ? unscrupulous and dodgy skip company allow their skip to be fill and then , mysteriously , those skip do not end up in a legitimate place for waste . will he look at the new technology we could have ? I believe that every skip should have a gizmo that track where it come from and where it be go . use technology in that way would solve problem , and I know that he would get a lot of cross - party support for it . I will , of course , always welcome innovation when it come to deal with waste crime . the Government be already take action on that by award £ 1 . 2 million to help more than 30 council to purchase equipment specifically to tackle fly - tipping . our digital waste tracking system will make it easy for authority to identify waste that do not reach the next stage . I will absolutely be happy to meet the hon . Gentleman if he have any idea on this issue so that we can take they forward . Angus be the garden of Scotland — the Minister be familiar with Angus , as we all know — but we also have a fly - tip blight that be deeply concern for our community . farmer do their good to clear up those mess , but it be not just commercial fly - tipper take an opportunity to make a fast buck ; other people be avoid proper refuse centre . can the Minister assure the House that £ 1 . 2 million be enough ? the barnettise share of that for Scotland do not amount to very much . will he redouble those effort ? let we get a grip on this blight . I do know Angus very well . like I , the hon . Gentleman will be incredibly frustrated when he see fly - tip take place in our beautiful countryside . when it come to rural crime , we be work with like of the National Farmers Union , our counterpart in Scotland and other to share good practice . as I have say , we have already fund a post within the national crime unit to explore how the police ' s role in tackle fly - tipping can be optimise . that will specifically help rural area such as Angus . Air Pollution what step his Department be take to reduce level of pmair pollution . pm2 . 5 be the most harmful pollutant for human health . our action to date on transport , industrial and domestic source have see PM2 . 5 fall by 10 % since 2010 . this year , we go far by set new target to drive down PM2 . 5 concentrate , and the Government will deliver on our air quality and net zero goal by support business to innovate . Manchester have some of the high air pollution level in the country , with thousand of child be see in A & E this year alone because of asthma and the impact of air pollution . I recently meet child from St Margaret ' s CofE Primary School to hear about how they be asthma - friendly and do everything they can to reduce air pollution at their school so that all pupil be safe and healthy . labour ' s proposal for a clean air Act would establish a legal right for everyone to breathe clean air , abide by World Health Organisation clean air guideline . why will the Government not commit to that ? it seem to I that no action be be take at the moment by the Labour Mayor of Manchester . the Government take air pollution incredibly seriously , which be why we have award £ 53 million to english local authority since 2010 to support the delivery of more than 500 local project specifically to tackle air pollution . we have also put an additional £ 10 . 7 million — grant to 44 local authority in 2023 alone — into tackle the negative implication of air quality specifically . research show that PM2 . 5 can be 3 % to 8 % high in electric version of heavy application , such as bus and truck , than in their internal combustion engine equivalent . do my hon . friend agree that , in order to get clean air and cut down PM2 . 5 , we need an eclectic future that embrace all technology and our great innovator , not just battery - electric ? as I have say , I will always welcome innovation when it come to improve air quality , not only in transport but in the implication of industry and commercial operator . it be clear that , through the Environment Act 2021 , the Government introduce the legally bind target to reduce PM2 . 5 . we have a set goal to reduce exposure to PM2 . 5 by 35 % by 2040 . I call the shadow Minister . from Bournemouth to Bolton , Hull to Newcastle - under - Lyme , people be cry out for action to clean our air , but the air quality target the Minister just mention , which be eventually set under the much - delay Environment Act , be at twice the World Health Organisation limit and do not have to be meet until 2040 . so do he accept the judgment of his Government ' s own Office for Environmental Protection that , on clean air , Tory Ministers be unambitious and lack the urgency we need ? this Government , through our landmark Environment Act , have set key target that we will be deliver on — many Opposition Members do not support all of its measure . as for support local authority , as I have say , we be invest £ 53 million to support they in deliver more than 500 project to specifically tackle air pollution and air quality issue . food Security what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on help to ensure food security . strengthen food security by support world - class farmer and food producer be a top priority for this Government . we produce 60 % of the food we consume , and food be one of the UK ' s 13 critical national infrastructure sector , which we regularly discuss with Cabinet colleague . I recently visit Tom , a farmer from my constituency , at the family farm in Pepperstock , where we speak about the importance of UK food sustainability — grow , harvesting and eat domestic produce . that be at risk without a well - function seasonal worker scheme . the National Farmers Union recommend improve the current scheme by secure it for five year , with annual review , and by increase the visa period to nine month , to cover long harvest . do the Secretary of State agree that those potential reform could support great food security in the UK and mean less reliance on food import ? I agree with the hon . Lady on the importance of food productivity and the sustainability of our farming sector , which be why we hold the " UK Farm to Fork " summit in May , chair by the Prime Minister , where we discuss food security with representative . it be also why just in this past week we announce £ 45 million to support our farming and rural sector in get innovation to farm and to help with cost , such as for solar , as part of that investment . I welcome my right hon . friend to his new role and , in particular , the experience of negotiate with the European Union that he bring to it , which will become more and more important in the month ahead . I welcome his remark about support the farming industry , but I ask he not to forget the seafood industry and its importance in provide food security — I be sure he will not . as he also know , he have an open invite , as the new Environment Secretary , to visit my constituency , which be a major fishing constituency in the UK . while he be there , if not before , through a virtual meeting , will he meet I and member of the seafood industry to discuss the way forward , because as much as we welcome the measure announce early this week to tackle abuse of legal migration , there be concern as we transition away from freedom of movement ? obviously , I be happy to give a commitment to meet my hon . friend to discuss those important issue . he will be interested to know that just this week I have a series of meeting with fishing leader to discuss some of the issue , include not only the 2026 negotiation , but the interaction with other area of Government , not least in respect of the offshore wind sector and the pressure on space . we also discuss the work go on in our marine protection zone and how that interact with the fishing industry , which I be absolutely committed to support . I call the shadow Minister . I , too , welcome the new Minister , the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the hon . member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) , and the new Secretary of State — I believe he be the fifth during my time in the shadow Environment team . the fish our fisher catch be vital to our food security , but the recent antic of the Maritime and Coastguard Agency , which be , in the name of safety , implement new medical rule , be leave many inshore fisher at their wit ' end . can it really be right that a fisherman in the prime of his work life risk lose his livelihood because he be brave enough a few month ago to admit to a doctor that he feel anxious ? I do not think it be , so will the Secretary of State corner his colleague the Transport Secretary in order to get he to do well than a temporary pause on this and to look urgently at exemption for small boat , as other country have sensibly do ? it be great to have Cambridgeshire so well represent on these important issue of fishing and farming . the shadow Minister raise an important point , because there have be concern in the fishing sector . the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries and I have be in touch with Department for Transport colleague on this issue . there have be amendment to the regulation as a result of those discussion , which be ongoing . however , we should not alarm people either , and the way that the shadow Minister characterise this — suggest that someone go to their gp and raise an issue , and that prevent they from follow their livelihood — be not what the regulation do . I recognise that there have be concern in the sector . we be look at they closely and follow they up , but the situation be not as he characterise it . that would cause undue harm to those in the fishing sector . Post - Brexit attempt to recruit domestic worker into agricultural job have not manage to fill exist vacancy , leave firm unable to produce at pre - Brexit level . New Government rule on migration now put the minimum income requirement for immigrant worker far high than the level currently earn by an agricultural worker in the UK . in that context , what assessment be he and his Department making of the impact that his government ' s draconian immigration policy will have on the security of domestic food production and on the cost and availability of food for consumer as they continue to battle the cost of live crisis to put food on their table ? of course we will work with colleague in the fishing industry to discuss the impact of the Home Office announcement — [ interruption . ] perhaps the hon . member would like to hear the answer , have ask the question . that be part of the discussion that we will have . it be worth remind the House that , for farming , the seasonal agricultural worker scheme be separate and be not part of the announcement from Home Office colleague this week . however , there will be question from the fishing industry , and we stand ready to work with it on those . Red Tractor Assurance Scheme whether he have have recent discussion with representative of supermarket on their propose change to the Red Tractor scheme . the Red Tractor assurance scheme be independent and its relationship with food retailer be a commercial matter for it . separately , the Government will launch a review of the fresh produce sector to understand issue relate to fairness in the supply chain . it be important that consumer know about the food they buy . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer . as he will be aware , although farmer in this country want to comply , they be a bit concerned that they may be disadvantage compare with foreign producer who do not work to the same standard . what assurance can he give to british farmer that he will do everything he can to make sure that supermarket do not disadvantage they ? I can give my hon . friend a very strong assurance on that front . support british farmer be my no . 1 priority . indeed , with the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries in the Department , we have someone who have a lifetime ' s experience of work as a farmer . we should be proud of the Red Tractor scheme , which be know around the world for be a high - quality mark of british produce . I recognise , however , that concern have be raise and we will launch a review soon into fairness in the horticulture supply chain , but if necessary , I will not hesitate to use the power in the relevant Act to introduce legislation to tackle contractual unfairness , wherever that exist . Climate Change : impact on Food Prices what discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero on the impact of climate change on food price . food price depend on a range of factor , which have recently include Russia ' s war in Ukraine and the subsequent energy price rise . support our world - class farmer and food producer and drive down inflation be top priority for the Government . I thank the Secretary of State for his response . the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit report that energy cost and climate change have push up food bill by an average of £ 605 over the past two year , with climate change drive 60 % of that increase . we already import £ 8 billion - worth of food from country struggle with extreme weather . obviously , we want to support those country on an international level with climate adaptation . in term of our food security here , will the Secretary of State review his predecessor ' s decision to secretly scrap the horticulture strategy , which could have help domestic grower and make we more resilient to the impact of climate change on food security and food price ? the hon . Lady raise an important point about the impact of climate change on food price in the future . that be exactly why the Government pass the Genetic Technology ( Precision Breeding ) Act 2023 to help to unlock innovation and strengthen food security by enable our lead scientist to develop crop that will well resist climate change . it be why the Government publish the third national adaptation programme as recently as July , and it be why we have our farming innovation programme — with £ 270 million of funding — which be focus on drive productivity and ensure that there be sustainability in the environmental and farming sector . food Prices what recent assessment he have make of trend in the level of food price . October ' s consumer price index price inflation be 10 . 1 % , down from 12 . 1 % in September and the low figure since June 2022 . industry analyst expect food price inflation to continue to decrease , and the Government be provide an average of £ 3 , 300 per household to help with the cost of live this year and next . the Minister , like the Secretary of State before he , forget to mention one of the big driver of food inflation in this country . I will give they a clue : it start with " Br " and end in " exit " . the reality be that the UK be the only G7 country where food price inflation remain above 10 % , and the average across OECD country be 7 . 4 % . if this government be not go to follow the SNP ' s proposal for price control on food , what be they go to do to finally get a grip on increase food price ? I think the hon . Gentleman be mistaken . if we compare price in the European Union with price here in the UK , we see that the price of a basket of good here in the UK be substantially low than it be for our friend in the European Union . if Brexit be the problem here , surely those price would be high in the UK than they be in the European Union . I think he be bark up the wrong tree . british Food Producers what step he be take to support british food producer . the Government be commit to support british food producer . we be invest £ 2 . 4 billion a year in England ' s farming sector , and we will also look to support more grower through the replacement of the fruit and vegetable aid scheme for England in 2026 . the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs also sponsor small and medium - sized enterprise masterclasse to signpost and support those business . I thank the Minister for his answer . have go through a difficult time during covid , in which it have to reduce staffing number , the Oscar Mayer factory in my constituency have now take on additional product line and be look to expand and create significant new employment opportunity . it use traditional method and fresh ingredient to make healthy and affordable meal option . I know it be watch these proceeding and would be delighted if the Minister confirm that he will visit the factory in Flint to see the huge improvement it have make in change the ready meal sector , which have historically be poorly regard ? the hon . Gentleman will be surprised to know that I would be delighted to visit a food factory . I be also delighted to hear about the success of Oscar Mayer . North Wales have a strong food and drink footprint , represent by many large and small business . should my diary allow , I would be delighted to visit . I will make sure that my colleague in the Wales Office also know that they have an open invitation . rise — question 11 be in the name of Sir Edward Leigh , who be not in his place . I would be grateful if the Secretary of State answer the question , as the shadow Minister have indicate that he would like to ask a supplementary question . flooding : management of Waterways what step his Department be take to manage waterway to help reduce the risk of flooding . the Government be invest £ 5 . 2 billion in flood protection between 2021 and 2027 . this build on the previous six - year investment of £ 2 . 6 billion , show the increase investment that the Government be make in flood protection . I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful for your generosity , Madam Deputy Speaker . we be just grateful that at least some Conservative Members have turn up . on 20 October over 500 home in Chesterfield , like hundred across the UK , be flood , lead to the tragic death of Mrs Gilbert on Tapton Terrace . Less than a month later , with the impeccable timing that only this accident - prone Government be capable of , the National Audit Office announce that the Government have cut by 40 % the number of home that will be protect from flood by 2027 . will the Secretary of State at least promise the House that he will never again say to a flood victim that the Government be do all they can ? I be sure the whole House extend our condolence on the sad loss of Mrs Gilbert . our investment in flood asset maintenance be up by £ 220 million . as I say , the previous six - year investment be £ 2 . 6 billion . between 2021 and 2027 , we be now invest £ 5 . 2 billion . yes , there have be pressure on the programme through inflation and covid , as the National Audit Office report show , but what be not in doubt be the increase funding that this Government be put into flood protection — the £ 5 . 2 billion indicate that — alongside the increase funding for flood maintenance . Raptor Persecution what step he be take to tackle raptor persecution . the Government take raptor persecution very seriously . it be a national wildlife crime and there be strong penalty in place for offence commit against bird of prey . in 2022 , DEFRA more than double its funding for the national wildlife crime unit to £ 1 . 2 million over three year , in part to target crime of raptor persecution . I thank the Minister for his response . there be many long - stand tradition that be worth preserve in our countryside , but raptor persecution be definitely not one of they . it be a vile practice and we need to do much more to protect our majestic bird of prey . have the Minister and the Department consider whether introduce vicarious liability would act as a deterrent to rogue landowner who direct their gamekeeper to commit wildlife crime ? as I say , the Government take raptor persecution very seriously , and those find guilty of wildlife crime should be subject to the full force of the law . DEFRA be work with the national bird of prey crime priority delivery group , which bring together the police , the Government , local authority and stakeholder to make sure we be do as much as we can to tackle this type of crime . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . may I begin by thank and pay tribute to my predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , for her work as Secretary of State ? have represent for over 13 year a rural constituency that , with the Cambridgeshire fen , be well know for its farming and water management , I be delighted to be appoint as Secretary of State at DEFRA and to be work with a strong ministerial team , include the new Under - Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley ( Robbie Moore ) . in the next few day I will be travel to COP28 to continue the work that be put centre stage at Glasgow on ensure that nature be at the heart of our approach to tackle climate change . my priority for the Department be to back british farming and fishing , champion rural community and protect our environment for generation to come . I welcome the Secretary of State to his place . my constituent be particularly keen that the UK have the good possible animal welfare standard internationally , and they write to ask the Secretary of State what progress be be make , particularly on livestock and equine welfare . animal welfare be an extremely important issue . that be why we introduce the Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill in the King ' s Speech . we be only able to do that because of our exit from the European Union . it be right that we put in place a ban to stop the export of livestock and horse for slaughter . my hon . friend will also be aware of the two private member ' Bills that be be take forward to tackle the important issue of pet smuggling and pet theft , which I know be concern to member on both side of the House . I welcome the Secretary of State to his place . he will have see the BBC " Panorama " investigation that expose how this Conservative Government have turn a blind eye to corruption and cover - up at the heart of the water industry . consumer be leave face high water bill , while water boss profit from pollution . will the Secretary of State now back Labour ' s plan to let the regulator block any bonus for water boss who be responsible for the tidal wave of sewage pour into our river ? we can go one well than that , in that we have already bring forward measure that allow the regulator , Ofwat , to take action , alongside tough penalty , now with unlimited fine . in addition , all storm overflow will be monitor 100 % by the end of this year , and there will be a much tough approach on regulation , as the House hear in the strong response to the debate early this week . the Mayor of Greater Manchester ' s proposal for a 493 square mile clean air charge zone would have be a disaster for business in my constituency . can my right hon . friend provide an update on the Government ' s response to the current Greater Manchester clean air proposal ? I can try , but the task of find clarity in the position of the Mayor of Greater Manchester in this regard be somewhat confusing . first he say he be in favour of tackle the issue of air quality — and , indeed , we have hear from Opposition Members how important that be — and then , when he have power to take action , he seem to look to Westminster and expect we to act on his behalf . of course I will follow up my hon . friend ' s request and seek clarity from the Mayor , but the ability to do so have , to date , be rather limited . why have the Secretary of State and this Conservative Government allow water company to increase my constituent ' bill substantially and pay out million in executive bonus , while fail to regulate the industry ' s rampant pollution and the dumping of raw sewage in our waterway , in stark contrast to labour ' s commitment to hold those company accountable ? let we look behind the rhetoric . give that the Leader of the Opposition keep tell we that he want the Labour Government in Wales to be his blueprint , it be probably worth our take a look at Labour ' s record in this respect . [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman ask the question , but he do not seem to want to hear about Labour ' s record , which be not surprising . under Labour in Wales , the average number of spill from storm overflow last year be 66 % high than the average in England . we have introduce unlimited fine and tough regulation , and we have set strong target in legislation . we can see what Labour in power would deliver — we can see it in Wales : a 66 % increase in storm overflow . can the Minister give I an update on the investigation by the Department and the UK Health Security Agency of the recently confirm human case of influenza A ( H1N2 ) v , which be similar to influenza virus currently circulate in pig in the UK ? do he agree that infectious disease such as this with a zoonotic potential underline the importance of the Animal and Plant Health Agency to our national biosecurity and public health , and that we should definitely be invest in the long - term redevelopment of its headquarters in Weybridge ? Swine influenza be endemic in the UK pig population . it generally cause only mild illness , but the Health Security Agency ' s investigation , with support from DEFRA , be ongoing . we be committed to uphold the UK ' s high level of biosecurity , and work be under way , with £ 200 million in the current spending review , to safeguard the long - term future of Weybridge as a centre for scientific excellence in tackle high - risk disease such as this . rise — order . we have not much time , so could we go a bit fast , with short question and short answer ? what step have the Department take to deliver the measure propose in the national food strategy to encourage the reformulation of food and drink product ? that be one of the issue that I look forward to deal with in the week ahead , and I shall be happy to drop a note to the hon . Lady . I apologise for not be here early , Madam Deputy Speaker . fly - tipping be the no . 1 issue in my constituency . will my hon . friend join I in praise Conservative - run Harrow Council for introduce free waste collection and 24 - hour notice of fly - tip clear - up , and indeed increase the number of fine for fly - tipping from 60 per year — under Labour — to 600 last year ? I commend the great work that Conservative - run Harrow Council be do , and I pay tribute to my hon . friend for bring those point to our attention . the new fly - tip league table allow central and local government , and indeed member of the public , to identify council that be take a proactive approach to enforcement — instead of simply clean up after fly - tipper — at fly - tipper ' expense . a successful healthy and sustainable food system require a number of factor , include a consumer base that can afford it . recent survey show that 25 % of people have remove healthy and organic food from their diet to save money . how do the Secretary of State plan to cultivate a consumer base that will enable people to buy good , healthy food ? my right hon . friend the Chancellor have set out a whole range of method to support consumer with the cost of living — [ interruption . ] just as the hon . Lady raise her hand on that , it be also worth remember that , under the Barnett consequential , Scotland receive more per head than those consumer in England . so those in Scotland be well able to meet those cost - of - living pressure — [ interruption . ] SNP member do not seem to like the fact , but it be a fact that under Barnett consequential the funding in Scotland be high per head that the funding in England , which allow consumer to meet those cost of living pressure and to make those choice , should they so wish . over the past six week , the Suffolk and Norfolk coast have take a real battering . home have tragically be lose to the sea , not least in Pakefield in my constituency . will my right hon . friend review the support provide to such household and business , to ensure that they receive parity of support with those impact by pluvial and fluvial flooding ? as a fellow east of England MP , I know what a fantastic champion my hon . friend be for his constituent and how rigorously he will ensure that those point be make . he , as an experienced parliamentarian , will also know that many of those fiscal issue be for colleague within the Treasury , but I be very happy to have discussion with he and to make representation where require . Oxford be proud when Port Meadow be give bathing water status , yet just last week the water quality be again rate poor . with the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how we can hold Thames Water to account for its continual failure over dump raw sewage in Oxfordshire ? I be happy , as the Minister responsible for water quality , to meet with the hon . Lady , but I will also say that , from the bathing water classification we see this week , 95 . 7 % of bathing water in England be rate good or excellent . that be up from 2010 , when just 76 % across England be rate good . this government be take water quality seriously , and I will endeavour to make sure that we go even far . that conclude question to DEFRA Ministers . we all welcome the new defra team . Attorney General the Attorney General be ask — Fraud and Economic Crime : prosecution what step she be take to help ensure the effective prosecution of perpetrator of fraud and economic crime . what step she be take to help ensure effective prosecution of perpetrator of fraud and economic crime . the Crown Prosecution Service and the Serious Fraud Office play a critical role in bring economic criminal to justice . just yesterday , the SFO announce a new investigation into fraud at AOG Technics Ltd , an aircraft part supplier . that be the third new investigation launch since Nick Ephgrave become director of the SFO . member of the conservative party use the pandemic as an opportunity to make money for their friend and donor total £ 3 . 5 billion . when will they face justice ? I completely refute what the hon . Lady have say . I be look forward to her question , but I be disappoint with the tone and substance of it . it be right to say that this Government be take economic crime seriously , and fraud as well . I hope she have see the new fraud strategy and , importantly , the report commission from Jonathan Fisher KC and his review on disclosure , which be due out next summer . the Government ' s fraud strategy in May be bill as a comprehensive plan to tackle fraud against the public and business , so can the Attorney General explain why it contain no detail of the number of offence suffer by business , no estimate of the loss that result , no target in relation to business , no measure specific to business and not a single mention of the two big type of business fraud : procurement and payroll ? I be pleased that the hon . Gentleman have see the full strategy — that be good news . I repeat my point about Jonathan Fisher KC , who have some important work to do . the hon . Gentleman will understand the volume of crime and the volume of digital material in the Serious Fraud Office . Jonathan Fisher be look at that and at disclosure , and that will help business , help individual , help the country and help the SFO to get on with its job . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . the Solicitor General will recall that back in 2022 the Justice Committee produce a report on fraud in the justice system and the step need to improve the way we tackle it . I welcome a number of the change that have be make , include the appointment of Mr Fisher KC , but will the Solicitor General reflect that one of the area of concern be the type of fraud that be significant , cause real loss to business and individual , but fall below the level deal with by the SFO ? there be real concern about the capacity and expertise within police force and the Crown Prosecution Service to tackle that level of fraud , which fall into the gap . what be the fraud strategy and , more broadly , what be the Government go to do to empower the police and prosecute authority to tackle that sort of fraud ? I be grateful to the Chair of the Select Committee for his question . we take all his report seriously , especially in this area . the CPS charge 76 % of all fraud matter place before it and have a conviction rate of more than 84 % . I will commit to reflect far on this matter . the Solicitor General will be aware that the Home Affairs Committee have launch a review of fraud . last week , we hear fascinating testimony on romance fraud from the victim of the Netflix series " the Tinder Swindler " . remarkably in her case , she be treat as a perpetrator , investigate by the police and threaten with prosecution , even though she have be defraud out of hundred of thousand of pound , and be lead a merry dance by that chap , who be still do what he do then . be there not a case for bring together Law officer , Ministers , the police and the social medium company to ensure that we deal with the victim and the perpetrator accordingly ? my hon . friend always raise serious point and bring to bear his expertise from the Home Affairs Committee . there be a case for cross - government work . in my role as a Law Officer I work across all Departments , include the Home Office , and I look forward to continue to do so . Greensill Capital be subject to criminal investigation in the UK , Switzerland and Germany . in Duncan Mavin ' s book " a Pyramid of Lies , " he subtitle the saga " the Prime Minister , the Banker and the billion - Pound Scandal " . amazingly , the company be not regulate by the Financial Conduct Authority . will the Attorney General please look into this massive loophole ? the scandal could have be stop if the FCA have be able to step in early . the hon . Gentleman will understand that the Attorney General and I superintend both the Crown Prosecution Service and the Serious Fraud Office , but that do not mean that we direct how they conduct investigation , and nor should we . it be right and proper that both organisation conduct their matter independently of Government , and that will continue . far to the question by my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , what guideline be give not only to the police but to the Crown Prosecution Service about the level at which fraud will be investigate ? as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on personal banking and fair financial service , I have refer a number of case that have come to I to the police and to the CPS , and they say that they do not have the resource to investigate they . could my hon . and learn Friend update the House on the position ? my hon . friend be diligent in these matter , and he raise an issue that affect we all as constituency mp , as we have all have case bring to we that need to be investigate . I work very closely with both the police and the Home Office , and I will continue to do so . I call the shadow Minister . in January 2022 , the then Chancellor say that , clearly , criminal have seek to exploit our covid support scheme , and " we ' re go to do everything we can to get that money back and go after those who take advantage of the pandemic . " what proportion of that money have be recover so far ? how many of those who take advantage have be send to jail ? first , I warmly welcome the hon . gentleman to his place or , rather , back to his place , as I understand that this be his third outing in the shadow ministerial team . it be pleasing to see his predecessor , the hon . member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) , whose name be on the Order Paper . we look forward to his question . the shadow Minister will be interested to know that I recently visit the Insolvency Service , which be conduct investigation into the bounce back loan scheme and the like . we must remember that the covid lending scheme deliver just under £ 80 billion of finance in almost record time . it be call for from across the House and should be support , but he be right that those who have commit fraud should be investigate . unduly Lenient Sentence Scheme what assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the Unduly Lenient Sentence scheme . in 2022 , my office receive 819 request to review unduly lenient sentence . of those , 139 be refer to the Court of Appeal , and the sentence be increase in 68 % of case . I welcome much of the work be do . as the Solicitor General will be aware , a serve Royal Navy sailor be the subject of a violent attack in Torquay when he attempt to stop a group of yobs stamp a bird to death , but the unduly lenient community sentence and small fine hand down do not reflect the gravity of the offence or provide any deterrent . what step will the Government take to review the unduly lenient sentence scheme to cover case such as that ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for his question . I know he have have a long - stand interest in this subject since even before he be a Member of the House , and I be grateful to he for hold the Government to account . he know that the ULS scheme — the unduly lenient sentence scheme — be reserve for the most serious matter . it be right to say that we keep the scheme under review . I can not promise or guarantee to my hon . friend any imminent change to it , but I be very grateful to he for raise that important case . could the Solicitor General make it clear what the scheme be about and spread the message more broadly ? I regularly write to he to say that a sentence have be too lenient . I recently write to he about Bernie Ecclestone , who I think should have be severely punish for his behaviour . I have also sometimes write to the Solicitor General and his predecessor about too severe sentence , often involve woman who have not conduct any violent crime but get long sentence . can we have a balance , please ? well , it be a Thursday , and I think we have hear a call for a Backbench Business debate or , indeed , for an Adjournment debate , and I would warmly welcome that . there have be such debate on the unduly lenient sentence scheme . it be not a mystery — there be further detail online — but I would seriously welcome a further debate to air these matter , because they be important . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that the balance between , on the one hand , unduly lenient sentence , and on the other hand , manifestly excessive sentence be important , and I look forward to his application for a debate . Hamas and Israel : breach of International Law if she will hold discussion with Cabinet colleague on consult the International Criminal Court on potential breach of international law in the conflict between Hamas and Israel . I know that the hon . Lady care deeply about the region . she and I — and , indeed , you , Madam Deputy Speaker — visit the region together some year ago , and I know that at the current time all of we will be think about the place we visit and the people we meet . in answer to her question , the ICC start an investigation into the situation in Palestine in March 2021 . I thank the Attorney General for her response . in the light of the brutality and sexual violence perpetrate against israeli civilian by the terrorist of Hamas , and the scale of the indiscriminate bombing of ten of thousand of Palestinians , include child , in Gaza , how be she urge the UK Government to advocate for the end of the killing to ensure that the International Criminal Court can gather the most detailed evidence to weigh the action of all party against international law at the early opportunity ? the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and , indeed , the whole of the UK Government have consistently urge that international humanitarian law must be follow in this case . the ICC prosecutor , who be a British - bear barrister — Karim Khan , with whom I have have a number of extremely helpful meeting over the course of my time as Attorney General — have say that the investigation be " ongoing and extend to the escalation of hostility and violence since the attack that take place on 7 October " . I call the spokesman for the Scottish National party . article 86 of the Rome statute say that , in relation to the work of the International Criminal Court , state party shall " cooperate fully with the Court in its investigation and prosecution of crime within the jurisdiction of the Court . " give that in 2022 the UK refer Russia to the ICC , can we assume that the UK will comply with any request from the ICC for footage from the reconnaissance flight operate over Gaza ? if not , what would be the legal basis for refuse an ICC request ? as I say , the UK support the ICC and its chief prosecutor Karim Khan . we do have surveillance flight operate in the region . the primary purpose of those be to help with the hostage situation . we will say once again that we very much hope that the hostage will be release immediately . it be absolutely the case that we will continue to urge all party to continue to abide by international humanitarian law . rule of Law within Government what recent step have she take with Cabinet colleague to uphold the rule of law within Government . what recent step have she take with Cabinet colleague to uphold the rule of law within Government as I emphasise to the House of Lords Constitution Committee in June , the rule of law be fundamental to our constitution , and it be the duty of the Law officer to uphold it . I will not ask the Attorney General to comment on specific legal advice that she have give to colleague — I know she can not do that — but , as a general point of principle , do she agree that the inclusion of a notwithstanding clause in legislation can not magic away the international law to which it refer , especially if an individual claimant can still assert their right under those international law ? as the hon . Gentleman know very well , I be unable to do away with client confidentiality and give he the specific of any legal advice that I may or may not have give . I take very seriously my obligation to encourage the Government to act in a lawful manner and to ensure that the Government be act in a lawful manner , both on the domestic front and on the international front . while it be a pleasure to see my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull East ( Karl Turner ) back in his rightful place on the Front Bench , I wonder how long the Attorney General will feel able to remain in hers . how comfortable be she with the draft Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill , which seek to oust the jurisdiction of our high court , deny our country ' s international treaty obligation and treat our constitution and the rule of law with contempt ? she have rightly say that her first duty be " as an officer of the court " , and she have call for a " respectful relationship " between the Executive and the court . be that why her name do not appear on the face of the Bill ? may I start by thank the former shadow Solicitor General for his great work while in that post and in particular for his championing of the pro bono movement , which I know he have always take extremely seriously ? it have be and remain a pleasure to do business with he . he know perfectly well — well than most — that I can not give from the Dispatch Box the detail of legal advice that I have be give to the Government , or of whether or not I have be give such advice . that remain the case . I remain very comfortable in my role , and I hope that I will remain in this role to give the Government legal advice for a long time to come . I join colleague on both side of the House in welcome the new shadow Solicitor General , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull East ( Karl Turner ) , to his place . I be delighted to see his predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) , still contribute to our debate . it be a pleasure and a blessing to work with both of they . as the previous question illustrate , there be an intense level of public interest both inside and outside the House about the legal implication of the new Rwanda Bill . while I appreciate that there be a doctrine of client confidentiality , it be nevertheless right to ask the Attorney General formally if she will publish her full legal advice on the Bill , as happen with the Brexit withdrawal agreement , or a summary of the legal position , as happen with the Northern Ireland Protocol Bill . in particular , will she set out the advice give to her colleague across Government on whether the introduction and implementation of the Bill be compatible with their obligation under the ministerial code and the civil service code ? the right hon . Lady understand , as I hope all of we in the Chamber do , the complication of the Law Officers convention , which mean that I simply can not go into the detail of my advice here . on very rare occasion , either legal advice have be leak or , more recently , I be glad to say , a summary of the Government ' s legal position , which may or may not include the Attorney General ' s advice , have be provide . the sort of circumstance in which we would envisage that to be appropriate would be if we be take military action overseas , for example . it be not something that be do on a regular basis . what I would say to colleague , because there have be a great deal of interest in the legal position surround the Bill , be that the use of a section 19 ( 1 ) ( b ) statement be not unprecedented . in fact , I remember , as a much young lawyer , when Tessa Jowell use such a statement for the Communications Act 2003 . that Act go on to be test in the Strasbourg Court and the Government be successful in that case , so I would not read too much into the use of a section 19 ( 1 ) ( b ) statement . it be unusual , but not unprecedented . Covid - 19 relate fraud : prosecution what recent discussion she have have with the Serious Fraud Office on the prosecution of covid - 19 related fraud . the Attorney General and I regularly meet with the SFO director ; however , the vast majority of covid fraud case do not fall within the SFO ' s remit , and investigation be handle by the most appropriate agency . recently , as the hon . Gentleman will have hear , I visit the Insolvency Service and hear about its excellent work in relation to bounce bank loan . give the statement by the former director of the Serious Fraud Office that red flag be ignore , and that Parliament ' s own spending watchdog estimate potential fraud of £ 16 billion , how much have be recover to date and what further lesson have be learn and apply to ensure that identification and prevention of fraud be embed across all Government Departments , and why be the UK Government not recover that fraud with the same zeal and determination that they have for impoverish benefit claimant who have have overpayment through no fault of their own ? I entirely refute and disagree with the hon . Gentleman ' s final comment , but he will be pleased to know that the new director of the SFO have set off apace . he have launch new investigation . there be a new energy and a new rigour within the SFO , but I repeat that it be not just the SFO that conduct such investigation ; the Insolvency Service be also involve , and be also carry out some excellent work . small Boat crossing : prosecution rate what step she be take to increase prosecution rate for small boat gang and other people trafficker . early this year , the Attorney General and I visit Western Jet Foil and the joint control room in Dover to discuss the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . the number of small boat crossing be down by a third this year , and we be see an increase in the number of prosecution since the introduction of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 . yesterday the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill be lay before the House . it would disapply the Human Rights Act 1998 for those seek sanctuary . that undermine the UK ' s international reputation and international law . the Home Secretary say yesterday at the Dispatch Box that the Attorney General make it clear that the Bill be in conformity with international law , so can he confirm that that advice be give , and how be it mean to impact small boat crossing and prosecution ? the hon . Gentleman have kindly be present throughout question time , so he will know that I can not confirm or deny whether advice be even seek , let alone give , let alone its content . his question be about small boat crossing , which Government Members be determined to stop . I be disappoint that he do not support our Nationality and Borders Act , which prosecute the people trafficker . that be the substance of his question . I look forward to his reading the Bill in more detail and support it in due course . refurbishing train : contract ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Transport if he will make a statement on expedite the contract process for refurbish exist UK train . I thank the hon . member for his question , which I will answer on behalf of the Secretary of State . the Department work closely with roll stock owner and train operator to understand when new and refurbish train be likely to be require , and to ensure a regular flow of work for train manufacturing company . train be major asset , with a lifetime of 35 to 40 year , so there will naturally be peak and trough in procurement cycle . the average age of the current fleet be 17 year . the Department have oversee the procurement of more than 8 , 000 new vehicle for the great british mainline railway since 2012 . some of those be still be produce , include Alstom train for south Western and West Midlands train . passenger travel habit have change over the past three year , and while number be show sign of improvement , we be still see reduce passenger revenue on the railway . we be aware that Alstom be face difficult trading condition . it be consult its union and employee on possible job loss . while it must be a commercial decision for Alstom , the Government have be work with the company to explore option to enable it to continue manufacture at its Derby site . official from my Department and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport have hold regular meeting with senior management at Alstom . we have also convene a cross - whitehall group to advise on way to support continued production at Derby and how good to support those worker who could lose their job . the fact remain that the market for passenger train be competitive . the Department can not guarantee order for individual manufacturer . none the less , we expect substantial continued demand for new train . last month , LNER confirm an order of 10 new tri - mode train for the east coast main line , and on Monday , a tender for new train for the TransPennine Express route be launch . contract award be also expect between late 2024 and early 2025 for major order for Southeastern , Northern and Chiltern . in the meantime , the Government will continue to work with Alstom and other UK manufacturer to ensure a strong and sustainable future for the rail industry . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for grant this question on a matter of some urgency . I thank the Minister for his response , and I must impress upon he and the House that the Secretary of State must expedite the contract bidding process for update exist UK train to ensure the survival of the UK - base train manufacturing industry . without immediate plan to allow company to bid for new contract , make no mistake , thousand of skilled job in the UK will go . the urgency stem from the crucial role of the Alstom factory in Derby . it be the UK ' s only end - to - end , design , build and test train manufacturing facility , make it integral to the UK ' s rail manufacturing industry . some 3 , 000 people currently work directly at Alstom , and 15 , 000 job in the supply chain rely on the factory ' s continued production . Nick Crossfield , Alstom ' s manage director , give evidence to the Transport Committee yesterday , and he be absolutely clear that the Government need to decide now on how and where they want train to be make in the future . if this government do not expedite the bidding process , train will not continue to be manufacture in the UK . they will start to be manufacture in North America , South America or south - east Asia . Alstom ' s current and final contract for roll stock be on the Elizabeth line and be due to expire in six week . that could mean an end to the rail manufacturing industry in the UK as we know it . yesterday , I meet Unite the union , of which I be a proud member , and rail worker from Alstom site in Derby , and they ask for our help in retain their job . also just yesterday , two of the supply chain company that supply Alstom go into liquidation due to the uncertainty over future order from the Alstom factory . time on this issue have never be more crucial . may I again thank my friend the hon . member for Easington for raise this important issue ? this be a matter of grave concern . the site have be operate in Derby for many year . indeed , I think he and I both go to that site when it be formerly own by Bombardier as part of a Transport Committee delegation . that support be assure . I also make the point that I be meet Unite the union next week . it have be in touch , and I will be pleased to work with it and everyone to see what more can be do to keep that plant open . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I know that the Minister be a great advocate of the work of the Transport Committee , and I strongly urge he to look at the transcript of the evidence we receive yesterday from not just Alstom but other in the rail industry . the fact be that the medium and long - term prospect for the sector be positive . what we be face be a short - term lull . I impress on he the urgency of work with the roll stock company — rosco — and other to try to bring forward some refurbishment contract that Alstom and other can bid for to help smooth out these peak and trough in the sector . I thank my hon . friend , the Chair of the Select Committee , for the work he do — that evidence session be particularly pertinent for highlight the matter he allow that Committee to raise . I can assure he that the Secretary of State write to roll stock owner in September to encourage they to discuss with train operator and manufacturer opportunity to ease short - term challenge in the supply chain , such as refurbishment or major overhaul . we recognise the issue , and have ask other to do their good to deliver on that . I declare that I be a member of Unite the union , and meet with trade union member yesterday . the urgency of this matter can not be overstate — the clock be tick , and those job will be consult on in the very near future if contract can not be find . the Minister write in September , but what have he be do over the past three month to bring forward contract that will enable the plant to remain open ? as I have mention , we have write to ask roll stock owner what more action they can take . just on Monday , I be up in Yorkshire for the announcement of an extra £ 3 . 9 billion in funding for the TransPennine route upgrade . that also start the tendering process for new rolling stock — 29 new train , with an option for another 26 — and as I mention , we be look for the tender process for Southeastern , Chiltern and Northern to go forward as well , so order be be put into the pipeline for train manufacturer . from the generous time he have give I on this subject , my hon . friend will know that overcrowding on the chiltern line persist to a very serious degree , because the age of the roll stock regularly lead to Chiltern have to run very short train on the main line — train that some people can not even get on in the first place . as he look at this important subject , will my hon . friend do all he can to ensure that Chiltern can get train refurbish and get new train into the pipeline as soon as possible ? my hon . friend be a champion for the chiltern line , and he do indeed bend my ear on that subject — he be right to do so , because that line be get busy now , which be a positive . that tendering process will be bring into be next year : we want to see chiltern train , and that process should allow they to be deliver . we be not ask the Secretary of State to give one company special treatment over another — I should say that I be also a member of Unite the union — but I believe that the retention of british manufacturing capacity have to be regard as strategically important for the United Kingdom . will he allow we to go forward by grant all company the opportunity to bid on new rail upgrade plan , such as Crossrail , Southeastern , and even the extensive Network North plan ? time be of the essence , and swift action from the Government can make a significant difference in secure the future of the UK rail manufacturing industry . I can give the hon . member that assurance . we will be bring those contract tender forward ; we now have four train manufacturer , which be to be celebrate . we have CAF in south Wales , we have Hitachi up in the north - east , we have Alstom — of course — in Derby , and now we have Siemens in Goole . all those manufacturer be bid , and the hon . member be absolutely right that there must be a fair process for all , which will take place . it be not that long ago that we have the hate Pacer train on the furness line . we be very glad to see the back of those , but of course a new , shiny train be no good if it be not run . the Minister mention that if we be not see customer demand , that be go to hurt the industry , so could he speak to what the Government be do to improve customer service and get the level of train service back up to where my constituent hope it will be ? we be aware that performance need to be a lot well than it be currently , not just from train manufacturer but from Network Rail . indeed , I be due to meet with the train operator this morning to discuss that issue ; obviously , I have have to move that meeting , but I be very happy to meet with my hon . friend so that I can take his particular point into account . we need to do more . I call the shadow Minister . the Alstom Litchurch Lane factory in Derby have be build train for over a century , since the dawn of train travel . it have provide high - skilled job for the local community for generation and help support other local company that form part of its supply chain , and as Britain ' s big train - building plant , it play a pivotal role in support the growth of the midland and our country ' s manufacturing sector . follow the Government ' s chaos and indecision over HS2 and the lack of a long - term strategy , hundred of highly skilled job at the plant be at risk , with no confirm workload beyond the first quarter of 2024 , and contract to build train for hs2 push back until 2026 , create a gap in order . this news will be deeply worry for those affect and their family in the run - up to Christmas . it will also be extremely concern for local business that rely on the factory and the wide rail sector , and for the people of Derby . the worker at Alstom have only day to get a decision out of the Minister before their livelihood be put at risk — time be up . they deserve to hear from the Minister how this have be allow to happen , and what action the Government be take to pursue a deal to secure the Derby plant and ensure that as many job be protect as possible . what urgent clarity can the Government provide Alstom on the short - term roll stock pipeline , include possible refurbishment ? I be pleased that the Minister confirm that he will be meet representative from Unite the union , and I hope that he will commit to work with they to safeguard job . when can the factory finally get certainty on hs2 order , so that it can plan for the future and secure job ? how many more rail manufacturing job across the country be at risk follow the Government ' s recent decision on hs2 ? early this year , Derby be name the Government ' s home of great British Railways . just seven month on , the future of its landmark factory be in danger . at the heart of this be the chaos and indecision of the Conservative party . the Minister owe the people of Derby and the country an explanation of what he plan to do to stop the Prime Minister ' s HS2 fiasco lead to more job loss . I will , if I may , deal with the matter of HS2 head - on . the shadow rail Minister make that same point , say that this be somehow link to HS2 , and it have now be make from the Dispatch Box today . the Secretary of State respond to the shadow rail Minister , so I shall put this on the record . with regard to HS2 , he say : " I can assure you this be not the case . Alstom be part of a contract with Hitachi to design , build and maintain hs2 train for Phase One only . Phase one of hs2 between Birmingham and London will continue " . that position have be reiterate by Alstom ' s chief executive . I gently point out to the hon . member for Wakefield ( Simon Lightwood ) that this have nothing to do with hs2 ; that have be establish , and it be erroneous to claim otherwise . the hon . Member also have to bear in mind that we now have four train manufacturer . we can not just award a contract to one manufacturer ; there have to be a fair tender process for all the job across all four plant . the Department for Transport have win a case bring by one of the other train manufacturer , demonstrate that our tendering process be fair . my hon . Friend refer in his opening statement to a new order from TransPennine . he will be aware that there be severe overcrowding on the Cleethorpes - Manchester - Liverpool service , because the train have be reduce from six carriage to three in recent month . can he enlighten I as to when the new stock will be come forward , as it will greatly please my constituent ? I hope my hon . friend ' s constituent will be comfort by the order , because it be not just an order for new TransPennine express train but a complete upgrade of the TransPennine route . the UK Government be spend more money on the TransPennine upgrade than be spend on the Elizabeth line , and that will mean deliver a well service . I be with the manage director of TransPennine train on Monday up in Yorkshire and we be discuss just that . we need to improve the service and the roll stock . upgrade to our train must include electrification , but electrification be at a standstill , with only 101 mile of track be electrify this year . East West Rail will not be electrify as standard , and dirty diesel train be still go through Bath . will the Minister commit to a long - term plan for electrification ? the Prime Minister ' s Network North plan do just that — electrification for Hull , between Sheffield and Manchester , and between Sheffield and Leeds . they be vast project , not small project . with regard to East West Rail , that be the upgrade of an exist line , which have its bridge size all the way through from Winslow to Bletchley , so it be difficult to put electrification on to that part . let I remind the hon . Lady that there have be more than 1 , 200 mile of electrification in the past 12 year compare with just over 60 mile in the 12 year before that . I think that be a pretty good record . I , too , have meet worker from the Alstom plant in Derby and , as a Unite member myself , representative of Unite as well . it be pleasing to hear that worker , representative and management be unite in their desire to retain good , high - skilled manufacturing job and train production there . I want to press the Minister again about recognise the importance of retain the only end - to - end train production facility in the UK during this short - term blip in production , so to speak . do he agree that this investment in public transport be vital if we want to tackle the net zero challenge we face ? the hon . Lady be correct : that be vital . the challenge , and it be a good challenge , be that we now have four manufacturer , and we need to help they with international order . that be why I sometimes go abroad with trade envoy from those company to export around the globe . the average age of our roll stock be down to just under 17 year — six year ago , it be 20 year — and as it get fresher , there be a challenge with pipeline as well . however , we be bring contract forward so that we can fill the order book well . as a Derbyshire Member of Parliament , I can tell the Minister that there be huge concern about the future of Alstom . I think it be perfectly reasonable to say that the Government have lack strategic direction on rail . they have go from one project to another , and in the last few year there have be no sense of an industrial strategy . when we have have these debate in the past , Ministers be always blame the EU and say we could not support british manufacturing because of the EU . we be now out of the EU , and it seem to I that country such as Germany be much well at support their manufacturing . can we have a real sense of urgency from the Minister and an indication that the Government be go to make sure , strategically , that these job be save ? I assure the hon . member that the Secretary of State in particular have be meet Alstom , and our official and our director general meet Alstom , include with representative . I will be do so on Tuesday week . we will do everything we can to assist , but this be a commercial matter for the operator . as I have mention , I have be to that plant with the Transport Committee and see what it do for the workforce and for the supply chain . we will be do everything we can to assist Alstom in keep that plant open . I thank the Minister for his answer . with many of my constituent dependent on Government help and support for manufacturing industry , I can well understand union fear at the dithering and the effect on the workforce . it be necessary to refurbish a number of train , so can the Minister outline how the Government will ensure that the much - need refurbishment contract can be organise to keep people in work , rather than pay out redundancy money to they only to rehire they six month later when thing be arrange properly ? that be the desire of every Member of this House . yes , indeed . as I have mention , we be bring forward order , and the Secretary of State have write to the company that finance train manufacturing and refurbishment to ask what more they can do to bring forward that refurbishment . at the risk of repeat myself , the challenge we have , and it be a good challenge , be that we have four fine train manufacturer and we have roll stock that be young than it previously be . so the aim be to try to get order out , which we be do , but I reiterate that it be also important that we help our train manufacturer export order across the globe so that they can manufacture not just for home but for abroad , and keep those job go . Cyber interference : UK Democracy with permission , I will make a statement about attempt cyber interference in british democracy . I know hon . and right hon . member across this House will recognise the seriousness of this issue . the Government have long highlight the threat to the UK and our ally from malicious cyber activity conduct by the russian intelligence service . I can confirm today that the Russian Federal Security Service , the FSB , be behind a sustained effort to interfere in our democratic process . it have target member of this House and the other place . it have be target civil servant , journalist and non - government organisation . it have be target high - profile individual and entity with a clear intent , use information it obtain to meddle in british politic . Madam Deputy Speaker , you and parliamentary security have be brief on the detail of that activity . we want to be as open as we can with the House and the british public . our commitment to transparency stand in sharp contrast to the effort of the KGB ' s successor to exert influence from the shadow . what can we confirm today ? I want to stress five particular point of our assessment . first , Centre 18 , a unit within Russia ' s FSB , have be involve in a range of cyber - espionage operation target the UK . secondly , Star Blizzard , a cyber group that the National Cyber Security Centre assess be almost certainly subordinate to Centre 18 , be responsible for a range of malign activity target british parliamentarian from multiple party . thirdly , use those mean , the group have selectively leak and amplify the release of sensitive information in service of Russia ' s goal of confrontation . in 2020 , when he be Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Esher and Walton ( Dominic Raab ) confirm to the House that Russia have do that before the 2019 election with document relate to UK - US trade . I can now confirm that we know Star Blizzard be involve in this operation . fourthly , these cyber actor use a combination of target , tailor their operation in a far more sophisticated way than be usually the case with , for instance , commonplace cyber criminal . they typically engage in thorough research and preparation , include via social medium and network platform . have thus identify way to engage a target , they create false account , impersonate contact to appear legitimate , and create a believable approach , seek to build a rapport before deliver a malicious link to either a document or website of interest . while they have target business and corporate email , the group predominantly target personal email address . finally , the targeting of this group be not limit to politician , but include public - face figure and institution of all type . we have see impersonation and attempt to compromise email account across the public sector , university , medium , non - governmental organisation and wide civil society . many of those individual and organisation play a vital role in our democracy . as an example , the group be responsible for the 2018 hack of the Institute for Statecraft , a UK think - tank whose work include initiative to defend democracy against disinformation , and the more recent hack of its founder , whose account be compromise from 2021 . in both case , document be subsequently leak . the Government ' s assessment be base on extensive analysis from the UK intelligence community and support by a range of close international partner . today , ally from the five Eyes and the Euro - Atlantic region be join we in illuminate the pervasive nature of this threat to our share democratic value . I pay tribute to the dedicated public servant , in our own agency and those of our partner , whose painstaking work have allow we to expose the reality of the threat we face . take together , the UK Government judge that these action demonstrate a clear and persistent pattern of behaviour . Russia ' s attempt interference in political and democratic process , through cyber or any other mean , be unacceptable . I reassure the House that we have identify target of parliamentary colleague and engage with victim through both the National Cyber Security Centre and the parliamentary authority . the Government will continue to expose and respond to malign cyber activity , hold Russia accountable for its action . to that end , the UK have designate two individual under the UK ' s cyber sanction regime , follow a thorough investigation by the National Crime Agency into the hack of the Institute for Statecraft . in do so we send a clear message that these action have consequence . this morning , the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office have summon the russian ambassador to the Foreign Office to convey that message . we have robust system in place to protect against the threat from foreign malign influence . the Minister for Security , my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) , lead the defend democracy taskforce , which drive work to improve our resilience against these threat . our National Cyber Security Centre , alongside five Eyes partner , today publish a technical advisory to provide guidance to organisation and individual at risk of be target to help defend against such attack . we will continue to defend ourselves from adversary who seek to threaten the freedom that underpin our democracy . it be and always will be an absolute priority to protect our democracy and election . a key component of increase our resilience be support the National Cyber Security Centre and parliamentary authority to deliver an enhanced cyber - security offer to right hon . and hon . member , and to member of the other place , that aim to well protect they against this insidious threat and support the resilience of our lively democratic society . we hope that this statement help to raise awareness of the threat and allow those in public life , in this House and beyond , to recognise how they may be target by such operation . Russia have a long - establish track record of reckless , indiscriminate and destabilising malicious cyber - activity , with impact feel all over the world . in recent year , the Government have , alongside ally , uncover numerous instance of russian intelligence target of critical national infrastructure , for example . we have work in close co - ordination with our intelligence partner to expose sophisticated cyber - espionage tool aim at sensitive target . the irony of Russia ' s abuse the freedom that it deny its own people to interfere in our politic will not be lose on anyone . of course , our political process and institution have endure in spite of those attack , but the cyber threat pose by the russian intelligence service be real and serious . all right hon . and hon . member should pay careful attention to it in the course of their work and their daily life . many in this House may not consider themselves a potential victim . I want to underline to the whole House that the targeting can be extremely convincing . we must all play our part in exercise good cyber practice , use appropriate caution and follow the good guidance of the National Cyber Security Centre and other to mitigate the threat . that be how we defend ourselves and our precious democracy . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I be grateful to the Minister for advance sight of his statement . the news that the russian intelligence service be behind an effort to target member of this House and the other place , civil servant , journalist and NGOs be not just concern ; it be an attack — not only on individual , but on british democracy , on both side of this House , and on the public we represent . labour , along with the whole House , condemn it in the strong term . the news come as we approach 2024 , the year of election not only in Britain , but in the United States , India and the EU , with more than 70 election schedule in 40 country across the world . democracy be build on trust , and trust must be build on the confidence that politician on all side be able to conduct the business of democracy free from interference . let I ask the Minister some specific question about these revelation . first , be he confident that the Government have uncover the full extent of the cyber - attack and every person who be affect ? secondly , on the response , I welcome the announcement of the designation of two individual follow the hack of the Institute for Statecraft , but have any specific action be take to respond to the cyber - attack on parliamentarian that the Minister have reveal today ? if not , why not ? thirdly , as we approach the general election , what additional step be the Government take to ensure the integrity of the democratic process ? will they make their official available to ensure that member on both side of this House be free from interference ; to train , equip and support member and all staff to well identify and respond to the challenge ; and to ensure not just that their digital communication be protect , but that their office , staff and family be , too ? this revelation be shocking but not unexpected . it be the late episode in a long pattern of hostile activity by Russia and other hostile state , include Iran and the democratic People ' s Republic of Korea , against Britain and our ally . there be more that we can do . labour have commit to the establishment of a democratic resilience centre in Government to work with our ally to protect our democratic value , political institution , election and open society . will the Government commit to create one ? as the shadow Home Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) , have outline , we do not yet have a robust and long - last equivalent of the cross - Government counter - terrorism strategy — contest — for deal with hostile state . will the Government commit to create one ? Labour have propose a joint cell between the Home Office and the Foreign Office to speed up decision making , share intelligence and expertise , and remove traditional barrier between Departments . will the Government commit to create one ? they still have not amend terror legislation to allow the Government to ban hostile state - sponsor organisation that be undermine our national security . will they commit to do so ? the Russia report have still not be fully implement . will the Government urgently update the House on when that will be complete ? this be not just about cyber - attack and direct digital interference ; it be about wide malign activity , include the use of artificial intelligence and deepfake to seed false narrative , spread lie and foment division . that include the widespread use of disinformation , misinformation and malinformation to undermine our democracy , through mainstream and social medium , and other mean . Labour have commit to urgently introduce bind regulation of company develop the most powerful frontier AI , which could be use to disrupt election . will the Government commit to do so too ? will they also commit to ensure adequate resourcing for the National Cyber Security Centre , the intelligence agency and the defend democracy taskforce ? I give the Minister every assurance that the Labour party will work in partnership and full co - operation with the Government and all relevant authority to take every necessary step to address this threat and protect the integrity of our political process from hostile interference . as politician from different party , we have all stand unite across the House against Putin ' s imperial aggression in Ukraine . that unity be a source of strength and pride . in the face of these threat , this House must remain united , Britain must remain united and democracy must remain united in defence of our institution and against those who seek to undermine the great value that our society be found upon . I be grateful for the tone and constructive content of the right hon . Gentleman ' s response . he be right to say that 2024 be a bumper year of election , involve some 70 election and billion of people across 40 country . this be a matter of trust and confidence , which be why we have make this statement now , to ensure that its full deterrent effect be properly time . the right hon . Gentleman ask whether we be confident that we have uncover the full extent of the activity . we have a high degree of confidence with regard to this specific incident , but of course it be a question and our duty be to remain ever vigilant . the lesson of this sort of activity be that a high degree of vigilance be necessary , and that be the posture that we now maintain in term of any future activity . I be grateful that the right hon . Gentleman welcome the designation . specific action have be take by the NCSC , in accordance and together with House authority , to ensure that all of the individual affect have a high degree of preventive measure in place . the posture of the House authority , and the security offer available , have be enhance . however , as I have say , it be a matter of improve vigilance on all side . as for additional step we might take , there be the collective deterrent impact of our naming and shame these individual and designate they in our sanction , as well as the diplomatic effort to call Russia out , combine with personal cyber - security measure on behalf of individual — those important step that all colleague need to take . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the Whitehall structure in this area and point to his own policy of call for a joint cell . we be confident that the defend democracy taskforce , lead by the Security Minister , represent a robust and cross - departmental response . on the wide picture of disinformation , the right hon . Gentleman be right to say that we need to up our game to counter disinformation , call Russia out and well resource and energise our own security posture in the cyber domain . that have be do ; there be an enhanced degree of resource , organisation and political will . this public statement today be part of the hugely important deterrent effect . the Intelligence and Security Committee be one of the first to sound the alarm on this issue in its Russia report . more recently , we have highlight the risk that China pose through interference in democratic discourse , for example , in think - tank and university . will the Minister update the House on what action the Government be take in response to the recommendation make in those two substantial report ? my right hon . friend make a very good point . clearly , this statement be about Russia , but she draw a comparison with the activity of China . that be an appropriate reference and I be pleased that in our domestic legislation we have the ability to ensure that country with malign intent do not use think - tank or other front to influence domestic political discourse in a way that be contrary to the health of our democracy . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . I thank the Minister for prior sight of his statement . it make for disturb reading and I absolutely agree that Russia ' s action be completely unacceptable . that member of this House and other have have their email account hack be deeply concern , but we know that this have happen before — indeed , it be probably happen right now — and we must accept that it will almost certainly happen again . as the Minister say , Russia ' s action demonstrate a clear and persistent pattern of behaviour . give that , have the Government consider make cyber - security training mandatory for all mp and their staff ? he will be aware of the belief that one of our weak link in our cyber defence be our staff , who be constantly target by unscrupulous external actor . although they be not House employee , it would be a reasonable precaution for mps ' staff to receive in - house training on exactly what to look out for , how to avoid get suck into a trap and what they should do if they have even the slight suspicion that they be be target . democracy be under attack . just last week , the canadian Government ' s Communications Security Establishment release a new report on cyber threat to election say that at least a quarter of national election around the world be target by some manner of threat , and that China and Russia be the most active country and be launch increasingly sophisticated influence operation by spread disinformation and seek to push election in a specific direction . perhaps most worryingly , the canadian report state in relation to AI undermine election : " we assess it very likely that the capacity to generate deepfake exceed our ability to detect they . " with mp face have their email hack , the democratic process be undermine and the UK general election just around the corner , what be the Government do to proactively defend the integrity of those election , and when can the House expect to hear about it ? I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s comment and question . he be absolutely right about the scale of the threat . alongside our call Russia out and describe the nature of the threat , it be important that we point out that Russia have fail in its intent to undermine our domestic politic . it be a genuine attempt that fail , and we be now more aware and resilient . that be why we be call Russia out , but we should also be proud that the institution of our democracy remain resilient . Russia have fail in its effort and it will continue to fail because we will continue to call it out . the hon . Gentleman make a very good point about staff training . I do not think we should mandate that , but we have work on a much - enhance offer to ensure that cyber - security be , root and branch , part of the normal working practice of mps and staff . that offer have radically improve . the House authority will continue to keep colleague up to date . a high degree of awareness in our working practice be very important and that be part of the rationale behind today ' s statement . I welcome my hon . friend ' s update . I be sure that I be not alone in have receive a large number of template email on particular subject . when I have diligently write back to those individual , they have say that they do not send the email . it be quite clear that hostile actor be collect our constituent ' email address and use they to subvert the democratic process . will my hon . friend take the message not only back to the Foreign Office , but across the House , that this need to be investigate and stop ? my hon . friend make a very good point . this practice , use email to insert malware or to entice user to click on a malicious link , be sometimes extremely convincing . staff have to deal with a great volume of such email , which be why we be pleased that the House authority have great awareness . staff should seek guidance from the House authority on take a more secure approach . the Minister contribute to a very good debate in the UK - EU Parliamentary Partnership Assembly , which meet in Westminster early this week , and touch on some of these issue . we be clearly deal with hybrid warfare — there be no other phrase for it . although I commend the Minister for come to the House to give we this information , the response of sanction two people seem rather mild . will he say more about that ? will he also say something about the co - ordination across western democracy and ally on next year ' s year of election ? we must all co - ordinate so that we can spot pattern in order to deal with this threat . the hon . Lady should be reassure that , although today ' s announcement pertain to two individual , it be indicative of a huge and sustained institutional effort to tackle this threat by way of a vastly improve defensive cyber - capability right across our nation . our global response be work hand in glove with five Eyes partner , and there be a huge diplomatic and security effort to make sure this activity be call out and pursue . that be not just deterrence ; it be also enhance resilience . although the number of individual be small , the hon . Lady should be reassure that the institutional work be tremendously well resource and entirely determined . I thank the Minister for his statement . I be incredibly grateful to the Speaker ' s Office , the Security Minister and the House authority for their work to increase our awareness and to improve our protection within Parliament , but we be in a very privileged position . frankly , the fabric of our society that be most at risk be those part that do not have access to such information , whether they be small and medium - sized enterprise that supply critical national infrastructure , whether they be the part of the economy that keep we go or , indeed , whether they be those who protect our election . will the Minister speak a little about what protection and information will be offer to they so that they can support we ? my hon . friend make a very good point . this affect we all . it not only affect parliamentarian or those in public life ; it affect those in commerce . the National Cyber Security Centre have publish guidance and be available to provide guidance to those business that need to ensure they have a high degree of cyber - security and resilience , particularly those involve in , for example , critical national infrastructure . this be a refreshing statement , but what action will be take ? this be a very serious challenge to our democracy . indeed , it be not only a serious challenge to member of Parliament . I know of a major takeover of a british company by a chinese entity . the senior executive say that , when they attend meeting , the Chinese know information about the company , its secret and its background that they could have know only by illegal mean . it be everywhere , and it be particularly come from Russia , China and perhaps Iran and North Korea . can we have action ? yes , we need to train our staff and member of Parliament , but I be brainwash as a child by the James Bond novel — maybe you be too , Madam Deputy Speaker . we have a wonderful intelligence system , but be our intelligence service up to the job ? do they need more resource ? the hon . Gentleman ask about action . it be a good question , and I can give a good answer : in term of our domestic legislation , we be now thankfully in a position to ensure that foreign country with malign intent can not freely invest in critical national infrastructure without the permission and outside the purview of Ministers . minister have take specific action to ensure that divestment have take place in certain commercial entity where a national interest be at stake , and that will continue to be the case . the Government posture have alter radically in recent year , and we should all be encourage by that . the hon . Gentleman make a welcome reference to James Bond . of course , it be the Government ' s policy never to comment on the security service , but I can ensure the hon . Gentleman that they be up to speed and very well resource . this be shocking , but not at all surprising . we have hear before about possible interference in the Brexit referendum , and then we have the Russia report , which be not implement . we be on the cusp of a general election — which may come soon rather than later — so my question to the Minister be , what conversation be be have with the Electoral Commission and the political party , because it be not just mps we need to think about , but candidate ? also , what plan do he have to take a whole - of - society approach so that voter can build resilience , and our democratic process and the ballot be completely secure ? the hon . Lady make a good point and ask a good question . the threat be significant , but I should reiterate that it have fail , which I think point to the resilience of our democratic institution . that do not mean that we should not be eternally vigilant — we will be . that work involve all party across the House and candidate . a lot of the preventive work be be carry out by the Defending Democracy Taskforce , which be specifically look at this issue under the Security Minister . the hon . Lady should be reassure that they have the bit between their tooth . I thank the Minister for his statement . what we have see be malevolent behaviour , and I be glad to hear some of the Government ' s plan . however , Labour be committed to establish a democratic resilience centre , so can I press the Minister to ensure that the Government consider follow our lead ? that work be already in place under the Defending Democracy Taskforce and the wholly re - energised and newly found National Cyber Security Centre , establish under this Government with tremendous resource and energy . whatever we call it , there be now a significant effort to ensure that we deter these thing and that mps and everyone across the political spectrum be in a much more secure position . as a new Member of this House , I obviously find this statement concern . will the Minister therefore outline some of the additional support that can be offer to new member and their staff , particularly because there be a lot to navigate ? there be an induction process , which I welcome because it have help very much , but there be about 10 minute on cyber - security , so it definitely could do with be update . the hon . Lady make a good point , and she be absolutely right . an improved and enhance offer be be work up together with the House authority . Cyber - security and cyber - hygiene should be a default daily practice . all colleague should be aware of the offer , and it should be make available to all colleague and staff . I thank the Minister very much for his statement . our Government have be preppe for cyber - warfare for some time . indeed , the rationale behind lessen investment in recruitment into the armed force have be that cyber - warfare be a big threat . that be the case , will the Minister confirm that the Government be prepare to act , should these newspaper claim have even a slither of truth ? how can we send the message today that the UK be prepared to face the cyber - threat as readily as any other threat ? we be well place . the threat be significant , and the risk to national resilience be significant in the cyber - age . the Deputy Prime Minister have lead a huge amount of work on national resilience . defensive cyber be an important part of that , and the National Cyber Security Centre have an important role to play . the challenge be huge , but the Government have cover a huge amount of ground . however , there be more work to do . I thank the Minister for his statement . business of the House the business for the week commence 11 December will include the following : Monday 11 December — Second reading of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill . Tuesday 12 December — Second reading of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill . Wednesday 13 December — Second reading of the Finance Bill . Thursday 14 December — a general debate on knife crime , follow by a general debate on the potential merger of Three and Vodafone . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 15 December — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 18 December will include the follow : Monday 18 December — Second reading of the Animal Welfare ( Livestock Exports ) Bill . Tuesday 19 December — consideration of an allocation of time motion , follow by all stage of the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Compensation Bill . the House will rise for the Christmas recess at the conclusion of business on Tuesday 19 December and return on Monday 8 January 2024 . let I first pay tribute to two Labour giant who have pass away in the past week . Alistair Darling be one of the guide hand in the last Labour Government . he be one of only three Ministers who serve in the Cabinet throughout the entire period , most notably as Chancellor during the global economic crisis . his calm , decisive and comprehensive response help to save our economy , and his leadership rightly earn he global and cross - party plaudit . Glenys Kinnock , whose later year be steal by the awful effect of Alzheimer ' s , will be remember for her political leadership alongside Neil , but also , very much in her own right , for social justice , woman ' s right , and international development . Glenys be a true sister who support and encourage a generation of woman into politic , include I , and our dear friend Jo Cox . our thought be with their family . so , Madam Deputy Speaker , what a mess : as the Home Secretary finally unveil his Rwanda Bill , the Immigration Minister resign in disgust . emergency legislation , and now an emergency reshuffle — and , as we speak , an emergency press conference : it be total chaos . the Government be now in freefall , unable to govern , and all the while family be worried about pay their bill and afford Christmas . the Prime Minister be so weak that he can not convince his own side , satisfy no one and inflame they all . we all want to stop the boat , but many on the Government Benches now agree with we that this plan be unworkable . unlike the Home Secretary yesterday , perhaps the Leader of the House can tell we how the plan will work . how many illegal migrant will be send to Rwanda ? the treaty say that the number be cap , and the small print say that it be just 100 people . what be the extent of our reciprocal arrangement to take refugee from Rwanda ? will we take more from Rwanda than we be send there , and when will this happen ? the Northern Ireland Secretary do not have a clue this morning . will the Leader of the House confirm that anyone who lose the right to remain in Rwanda — for example , those who commit serious criminal offence — must be return to the UK ? we now learn that it be the Rwandan Government who insist that international law must be uphold . be it the Government ' s view that international treaty do need to be overridden ? the Home Secretary could not say how the treaty and the Bill deal with appeal and legal challenge . can the Leader of the House assure we that this policy will not get clog up in the court all over again ? the Prime Minister do not convince people just now . can the Leader of the House commit herself to publish the Government ' s estimate of the cost of this plan ? the Prime Minister have just say at his press conference that he want the Bill to be pass in record time , so why will it not go into Committee before Christmas ? the answer be that he can not persuade his own side . let I say this to the Leader of the House . the truth be that this plan will not work . I know it , she know it , they know it . that be why the Immigration Minister resign , and that be why he say that these measure be " a triumph of hope over experience . " that be why the former Home Secretary , the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) , say this morning that the truth be that " it win ' t work and it will not stop the boat " . she also say : " we can ' t keep fail the british people . " this be now the third piece of legislation in two year , all try and fail to do the same thing . it be the very definition of flog a dead horse . but it be not just the policy that be dead , but the whole sorry government — fail , divided , defunct and incapable of govern . finally , in further evidence of the Government ' s death throe , this week the Prime Minister suffer his first Commons defeat , over the infected blood scandal . so off be their judgment that they could not even support a measured , reasonable amendment from my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) to set up a body to administer compensation immediately , as recommend by Sir Brian Langstaff , who lead the inquiry . on reflection , do the Leader of the House not think that they have just get this one badly wrong , and will she now ensure that this amendment survive the passage of the Bill ? in fact , the Government ' s former Paymaster General tell the infected blood inquiry : " I believe it to be inevitable that the Government will need to provide substantial compensation . . . I believe we should begin prepare for this now , before the inquiry report " , add that it be " a moral obligation . " that Minister write to the now Prime Minister , then the Chancellor , twice to press their case , never to get a reply . that Minister be now the Leader of the House , so can she tell we : do she still agree with herself ? I join the hon . Lady in pay tribute and send my sympathy to the family of Alistair Darling and Glenys Kinnock . I do not know Glenys Kinnock , but I do know Alistair a little , and we will miss his very dry sense of humour . I be sure that all our thought be with their friend and family . I also wish Mr Speaker a speedy recovery . I will also take this opportunity to wish jewish people around the world a happy Hanukkah . it be a festival of light overcome darkness , and that be as relevant today as it be thousand of year ago . I know the celebration will be more difficult this year for everyone , but I also know that jewish people across this country will celebrate over these eight day as a symbol of jewish pride . I be sure all in this place will want to wish everyone celebrate " Chag Hanukkah sameach . " the hon . Lady raise the important matter of the infected blood scandal , and she be right : I be the Minister who set up the compensation scheme . I feel it important that it run concurrently with the inquiry , rather than have to wait until the inquiry report and then set up that piece of work . Sir Robert Francis have do a very good job and the Minister for the Cabinet Office be now do the heavy lifting on put the scheme together . I have meet with he on several occasion , and I know he be completely committed to that and be work hard on it . I point out to the hon . Lady that I could not have get the compensation scheme study establish without the blessing of the Chancellor at the time . that person be now Prime Minister , and I know that he be committed to deliver on it . I want to reassure all those who be infect and affect by the scandal that this Government have not only establish an inquiry , after many decade of this injustice be do , but establish a compensation study . we have do that for a reason , because we wish to deliver and bring justice to this group of people . we be the first Government to have do that and , if we can do that in short order , I think that would be something to be very proud of . it be great to see the Labour party channel the right of the conservative party — channel Mrs Thatcher recently on border , on fiscal responsibility and on her crusade for worker , wealth creator , carer and protector . unfortunately , the party be simultaneously plot to destroy all that she build and stand for . I know Margaret Thatcher , and I can tell the hon . Lady that the Leader of the Opposition be no Margaret Thatcher . it will take rather more than a light perm , pearl and a handbag for he to pull off that look . he will need to get a backbone . he will need to get some principle . he will need to rethink the Labour party ' s stance on our Rwanda policy and our border control . he will need to rethink borrow £ 28 billion more . he might also like to stand up for the public and support our minimum service level agreement . he might like to reject the demand of the TUC , which want to repeal all the reform that Maggie bring in . he might like to call out the British Medical Association ' s cruel plan to cancel operation and cancel Christmas for thousand of elderly people in care . he might like to call out the immoral ask of union to transport worker , who will have to forgo pay over Christmas . in fairness , the great lady do say : " you turn if you want to " , and labour ' s leader have jolly well do so , several time on his leadership pledge and on almost every policy announce since he become leader . if she be the iron lady , he be the ironic man . the hon . Lady ask about Rwanda . I pay tribute to the work of my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) . he help the Prime Minister reduce boat crossing by a third in the last year — more than any Minister and Prime Minister have achieve . we must ensure that our asylum and immigration system be fit for purpose , and we must protect and control our border — the public be right in their demand that we do so . the treaty and the legislation will enable we to operationalise the Rwanda policy . will they be enough to do all we need to do ? no , but we will have other tool as well . will they help to give we more option and to deter people from make the terrible crossing across the channel ? yes , they will . the Opposition have put forward no alternative plan . my question to they be : what be the objection ? it can not be a legal one , because the policy do not break international law , and nor do it blur the distinction between lawmaker and those who interpret the law . it can not be a moral objection , because it be a moral crusade to use every tool that we have to end the trafficking of human being . it can not be a policy objection , because the Labour party have no alternative policy . it have vote against every single measure that we have introduce to protect our border . it vote against the last Bill more than 70 time . labour have fight we on end free movement and the deportation of foreign criminal , and it have say it would take an additional 110 , 000 people per year from Europe . as I say , ironic . last night , the Labour - lead administration at Staffordshire Moorlands District Council vote to increase council allowance by 44 % , at a cost of £ 400 , 000 to council tax payer . will my right hon . friend find time for a debate about local authority spending and how we can make sure that council tax payer get value for money ? as my right hon . Friend ask her question , there be audible gasp across the Chamber . that be an incredible lack of local political leadership . council tax payer in her district will be disappoint to hear that news . if she be to apply for a debate , I be sure that it would be well attend . I be sure that everyone would urge restraint and want to ensure the good value possible for people ' s hard - earn cash . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . it be tempting to forestall and dismantle now any spin that the Leader of the House may be incline to bring up on scottish education issue , give Westminster ' s shocking record . follow her outburst against Scotland ' s health service worker last week , I must clear up some thing . Scotland watch her " odd " weekly rant , as the scottish press dub they , with concern and alarm . let I give some useful fact for she and Scotland about the scottish NHS : health funding be at record high ; staffing level be also at a record high , with far more staff per head than England ; we have the good perform a & e unit and the high number of GPs per head in the UK , no prescription charge , and still not a single day lose to industrial dispute in the scottish NHS . there be always room for improvement but , as the Leader of the House reach for her late penny dreadful script , she can rest assure that I will be happy to set the record straight , wherever her imagination take she . meanwhile , the Government plumb new depth with their immigration panic measure , which be so damaging to Scotland in particular . the Daily Telegraph columnist Tim Stanley have write : " a friend have message I in a blind panic " . if they fall in love and marry someone from overseas , must they have an income of £ 38 , 700 to settle here ? he go on to say : " something like 75 % of we earn less than that . be it fair to limit family formation to the rich ? be it conservative … to divide family ? of course , it be fine if someone be rich , so maybe it be . if we , our child or our grandchild fall in love with someone from another country — many of we do so on our travel ; I be live proof of that — they will not be able to join we here unless we have guarantee earning near £ 39 , 000 . Cue a further exodus of our young people from these shore to other country with a more enlightened approach to migration and their citizen ' human right . even bad , those who have already go through the process and who think that they have win the right to live here in peace will have to come up with that figure the next time their visa be extend . should Parliament not have debate these extreme measure first ? can the Leader of the House defend this shameful policy , or be she and other Ministers threaten to resign ? I thank the hon . Lady . I would ask she to go and have a look at the SNP ' s record on education . I have speak about that in the last two business question session , so I shall not detain the House any long on it . I think everyone in this Chamber be aware of the SNP ' s appalling record on destroy the education system in Scotland — the only people who be not be those in charge of it . the hon . Lady mention the NHS and pay settlement , and the theme of her question be really value and morality . do she think it would be moral if a Government deny fast nhs treatment to its citizen post covid because they do not want to send they to an english hospital ? I understand that the former Health Secretary make that offer to the First Minister and it be reject . be it moral to offer a pay deal , as she boast , to public sector worker , include NHS worker , without a plan to pay for it ? come to think of it , be it moral to withhold fund designate for business rate relief from business ? would she describe it as moral if a Government deny their citizen the ability to have a civil partnership — she speak of relationship — with their opposite - sex partner for a year , include those who be terminally ill , because they do not want the UK Government to legislate on their behalf ? while the hon . Lady be look up the SNP ' s record on education , I would ask she also to check how many concurrent police investigation there be into the SNP ' s antic . owe to her party ' s antic , I be afraid her quest to take the moral high ground be stick at a subterranean level . but give that she have , as be standard SNP operating procedure , play the man as well as the ball , I will set the record straight on my own record with regard to refugee . I spend time over two year look after the most desperate and vulnerable people in the eastern bloc after the romanian revolution . more recently , I have spend time on the water in the Mediterranean and northern Libya tracking migration and people - traffic route . when I be in Greece and Italy , I see how the EU ' s biometric scanner in its southern port have not even be uncover and unwrapped , and how Europe ' s security be be fail . I have open my home to refugee : I have be host a ukrainian refugee since May last year , and before that I offer my home to afghan refugee . I can tell the hon . Lady that migration be one of the most critical issue face our country and the world , and that the global rule on it be break . I have make it my business to understand how we can fix they — that be our duty — and it will take global leadership to build the tool to rewrite those rule . if we do it , I think other nation will follow . I would ask she to really check what her duty be in this manner and consider support our legislation . yesterday the Welsh language broadcaster S4C publish the most damning and shocking report about bully within the organisation and the fear in which staff have to conduct their duty and responsibility . that be a publicly fund organisation . may we have a debate on this issue and on the report so that we can properly consider how we can offer the good stability for the channel , as well as offer a bright future for those who work for it ? it be extremely important for Welsh culture , the Welsh language , and Welsh job and industry in this vital sector . I thank my right hon . friend for raise this shocking situation . S4C be an incredibly important service to culture and education , and we want that organisation also to enshrine UK and Welsh value at its heart . give that culture , Media and Sport question be not until 11 January , I will write this afternoon on his behalf and ensure that the Culture Secretary have hear of this appalling situation . I hope that it will swiftly become a happy one . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I thank the Leader of the House for announce the Backbench Business for next Thursday . before those two debate , there will be a Select Committee statement on a Home Affairs Committee report on human trafficking , which will be publish tomorrow . I also thank she for our meeting early this week and reiterate my request that she give we an early indication of any Backbench Business Committee time in the week begin 8 January so that we can allocate that business prior to the Christmas recess . in my role as Chair of the Committee , Members from across the House often ask I question , think that I benefit from a level of inside knowledge or political insight . one question that I be repeatedly ask be , " do you know the recess date follow Christmas ? " on behalf of Members across the House , I ask that question of the Leader of the House ; possibly she will let we know next week , before the Christmas recess . I have be contact by a number of constituent regard the new propose earning threshold of £ 38 , 700 to be eligible for a spouse visa . will that new threshold apply to new applicant only or to exist visa holder already resident in the UK and validly here , look to extend their stay ? it could jeopardise family who be legally here , gainfully employ and make a positive contribution if they be possibly have the rule change underneath they . I thank the hon . gentleman for his always helpful advert for future Backbench Business debate . as he know , I will endeavour to give he early warning of when other time can be schedule ; I will endeavour to do that shortly . I completely agree on recess date and hope to be able to update colleague very soon . that point be well understand not just in term of people ' s ability to organise family life but for its particular significance for those right hon . and hon . member who be farmer . I will therefore endeavour to do that very shortly . I have anticipate the type of question that the hon . Gentleman would ask . I be sure that there be particular sector on which people will want to focus , such as armed force personnel , so I have ask the Department to produce some further briefing on this matter and to share it with all hon . member . rise — Order . I will be prioritise those who do not contribute to the early urgent question and statement . can we have a debate on antisemitism in high education ? this week , the president of Harvard , MIT and Penn appear before the United States Congress , and when ask repeatedly about whether call for genocide of Jews break the university code of conduct and be harassment , they say that it " depend on the context " and whether the speech turn into actual genocidal conduct . it be impossible to imagine a call for mass murder of any other minority group be say to depend on the context . a call for the mass murder of black people or gay people would rightly not be tolerate for a moment . this be top - level institutional Jew hatred at the high level of academia , and sadly university in the United Kingdom be also infest with antisemitism . do the Leader of the House agree that british student must be protect from such poison ? I completely agree with my right hon . and learn Friend . the individual from Harvard , MIT and Penn who give that jaw - drop evidence early this week have do the academic community a favour : this should be a wake - up call on how abhorrent some of these policy be and how they be be interpret . it be amazing that it need to be say , but if a code of conduct permit the advocation and promotion of mass murder , it might need a redraft . there be a wide point here : we look to these academic institution to be the guardian of the value that we hold dear . freedom of speech and freedom of thought be very important to academic inquiry and our democratic value , but we can not in any way tolerate the promotion of genocide and the extermination of a group of people . it be absolutely abhorrent . I commend the work of the Union of jewish Students , which do a huge amount on our campus . it have deliver more than 100 anti - semitism awareness train session to about 3 , 000 - plus campus leader in the UK . we should support its work , and I hope that every vice - chancellor and university board will be ask to see these policy to ensure that they be in good shape . Sellafield be one of our most sensitive site for energy and national security . new report in the Guardian have reveal a damaging and potentially ongoing cyber - security breach by group link to Russia and China . they call into question the management and workplace culture , the performance of senior staff , who be now under investigation by the Office for Nuclear Regulation , and the response and performance of the regulator itself . will the Leader of the House find time for a debate or ministerial statement on those deeply worrying revelation ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise the report that have be in the press , which I know be of concern to she . as the date for the next Home Office question have not yet be announce , I will write on her behalf to the Security Minister and ask whether he and his official can update she . sometimes there be a sporting achievement that simply can not go without comment . over the last year , Red Bull Racing smash through every record in the Formula 1 season , win 21 of the 22 race . that magic can happen on track only because of the incredible british business , base up the road from my constituency in Milton Keynes , and its innovation , excellence , skill and engineering superiority . will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate Christian Horner and the whole Red Bull team on their success this year , and can we have a debate on the value of motor sport and those skill to the wide economy ? I be sure that the whole House will join my hon . friend in congratulate the Red Bull team . we should be proud that this country be the home of motor sport . it be not just the many business in his local area , but the incredible supply chain across the whole of the UK . he will know how to apply for a debate . I be sure that many member would wish to attend . I shall borrow from the legendary Murray Walker in say that the request for a debate on this very important topic be go , go , go ! mole , Bath ' s wonderful grassroots music venue , be sadly force to close its door last week . it be an incubator for many new talent and give many household name their first chance on stage . without grassroots venue , there will be no music industry . More than 100 small music venue be force to close their door in the UK last year due to cost pressure that they could not meet . can we have a debate in Government time about the importance of our small music venue ? I be very sorry to hear about that , and I be sure the hon . Lady speak for many of her constituent who will miss that facility . we have manage to get a lot of organisation through the terrible few year that we have have , particularly with the pandemic , but we need to build back what we have lose and organisation that be fragile . she will know that the next question to the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport be on 11 January . I know that my right hon . and learn Friend be very much look at ensure that we be disburse all the available support right across the country , and that it reach every constituency . I encourage the hon . Lady to raise the matter with she then . last week , for Small Business Saturday , I crown the winner of my new independent shop of the year competition . on the Brakes be a fantastic bike shop in Leigh - on - Sea specialise in bike maintenance , custom build , and education and bike repair . it storm to victory . give that 98 % of business in Southend West be small and micro , be that not live proof of the importance of independent business to our economy ? could we have a debate , please , in Government time , on the importance of independent business to our high street and to our national economy ? I pass on my congratulation , as I be sure do everyone in the Chamber , to on the Brakes for all its work . it be clearly value by its local community . I thank all hon . and right hon . member who take part in Small Business Saturday last weekend . my hon . friend be absolutely right : such business be the lifeblood of our economy , locally and nationally . they also provide amazing community facility and support for so many in our constituency . she will know how to apply for a debate , and I be sure it will be well attend . many famous people have be bear at the Whittington maternity unit , include the shadow Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) . this summer , I have the joy of visit the maternity unit with my good friend my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , but we notice that the facility be desperately old and crumbling . do the Leader of the House agree that we desperately need a debate on maternity unit across the UK and that we urgently need more funding , so that the building can come up to a really good standard to match our aspiration , as outline in the Care Quality Commission report , which say that 55 % of our unit across the UK be not up to scratch ? we need those crucial amount of funding , so that we can bring up the standard of those crumble building to match the aspiration of woman give birth in our maternity unit . the hon . Lady will know that the quality of maternity care , which be not just about healthcare practice but about the facility , have be a particular recent focus of the Department of Health and Social Care . we have a capital programme that be regenerate our facility and build new one , too . health question date have not be announce yet , so I will write on the hon . Lady ' s behalf and flag this matter with the new Secretary of State for Health and Social Care . every single week , I receive correspondence from and meet parent who be simply exasperate by the wait they face for a child and adolescent mental health service assessment for their child . for child to be educate properly and look after in the good possible way , it be paramount that child receive their assessment as soon as possible and that family do not face unacceptable wait of up to three year , as many do in Darlington . do my right hon . friend agree that we must speed up CAMHS assessment ? can we have a debate on that important issue ? a three - year wait be a truly shocking statistic , and my hon . friend ' s constituent should not find themselves in that situation . I thank he for what he be do to campaign on this issue . he will know that we be invest an extra £ 2 . 3 billion a year by March next year to support an additional 2 million people , which include 345 , 000 child and young people . the situation in his constituency sound acute , and I will write to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care on his behalf this afternoon and ask that her official and Ministers get in touch with his office to see what can be do in the interim to bring that waiting time down and ensure that every child and young person be get the support they need . may I draw the Leader of the House ' s attention to the career of Geraldine Bradley , the catering service manager at Ballykeel Primary School in County Antrim in my constituency ? Geraldine Bradley have work there for 42 year , without a single absentee day or sick day . that be an absolutely incredible contribution to public service . she cater currently for 430 pupil in that school , and have do so with excellence . over the year , she have feed and nourish thousand of pupil across the constituency . how can I well encourage other people in the public sector who engage in public service with such enthusiasm to look at the example that Geraldine have set and apply it to their own career ? I be sure we will all join the hon . gentleman in send our thank , congratulation and good wish to Geraldine . what an incredible public servant , and what a life of service . she should be hold up as an example to all in the public sector , and I be sure that as well as provide the nutrition that the pupil at that school need , she have provide many happy time and happy memory . we wish she well , and the hon . Gentleman have provide the answer to his own question by put that on the record today . the headline of Christina Lamb ' s article in the Sunday Times at the weekend be " First Hamas fighter rape she . then they shoot she in the head " . in the light of the profoundly disturbing revelation in that article about sexual violence commit by Hamas on 7 October , may we have a ministerial statement so that the Government can set out the action they will take to raise this issue in international forum such as the UN , some of which have be far too slow to recognise and condemn that aspect of the Hamas atrocity ? I thank my right hon . friend for allow we to state on the record the appalling atrocity that many woman — many of whom do not survive those attack — have to endure at the hand of Hamas , include rape , but also the most horrific torture and mutilation . I think we be all very disappointed that organisation to which we look to show leadership on these matter be not swifter and more robust in their condemnation of those appalling atrocity and act . we spend a great deal of time think about our own aid allocation in this respect , and fund many scheme around the world that have have huge success in reduce violence against woman and girl . I will ensure that the Minister with that responsibility in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office have hear what my right hon . friend have say , and we will reflect on what more we can do and what more we can say we expect from the organisation that we work with on these matter around the world . since the russian invasion of Ukraine , the Government have rightly make time in this Chamber to debate that terrible conflict . the Israel - Gaza war be equally horrific , from the killing of Israelis on 7 October to the death of thousand of palestinian civilian that continue daily . no doubt the Backbench Business Committee would look sympathetically on a request for a debate , but should this not be debate in Government time ? may we have a day ' s debate on it as soon as possible ? I fully understand the hon . Gentleman ' s request . on his first point , he will know that the Foreign Secretary have be in Washington talk with our partner both about Ukraine and the ongoing situation in Israel and Gaza . I will certainly ensure that both he and his Minister in the Commons , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s request . our hard - press and hard - work police have have their leave cancel , have be require to work overtime and be at break point just police organise protest . to make it even bad , the just Stop Oil brigade refuse to engage with the police about its protest . the Metropolitan police say that it have now cost taxpayer £ 20 million to deal with those just stop oil protester , so may we have an oral statement on police funding and what will be do to stop those protester bring London to a halt ? I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to all the work that the police have do . since we have give they some new power , they have do an incredible job ensure that activist do not disrupt traffic or stop emergency vehicle and keep area run , include our major motorway and , in particular , our capital city . my hon . friend be absolutely right that those protest be cost taxpayer and use police resource — if he be to find a campaign call just stop it , just stop Oil , I think it would be very well support . I will ensure that the Home Secretary have hear his concern about resource . first , may I associate myself with the comment of the shadow Leader of the House about Alistair Darling ? he be someone I know . he be a huge figure in scottish politic , and the perfect example of a public servant . I also wish to pay tribute to Lord James Douglas - Hamilton , the former Conservative MP for Edinburgh West , who be always the perfect gentleman and another example to we all of public service . a constituent of mine recently raise the issue that he and a number of other marine have be expose to asbestos during a training exercise . they be currently try to pursue an adequate response from the Ministry of Defence on this potential breach of health and safety . can the Government find time for we to discuss both this issue and the general issue of how we well protect our armed force on training exercise ? may I associate myself with the remark of the hon . Lady about Lord Douglas - Hamilton ? I be sure that all member would join she in that . the hon . Lady raise a very important matter . I know that , in recent year , the Ministry of Defence have be look at how it can mitigate thing that happen and injury cause on training exercise , from its joint service publication to ensure that people have the right equipment and that it be all in good order . the issue that she raise would be of most interest to the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs . I will make sure that he have hear what she have say , and I think the topic would be an excellent one for an Adjournment or Westminster Hall debate . Barrow and Furness recently celebrate 150 year of naval shipbuilding , supply the submarine that keep we safe now and long into the future . as the shipyard deliver Dreadnought and now lean into the opportunity of AUKUS , it remain pivotal to the UK and the world ' s security . give that position , I have join a campaign to try to secure for Barrow and furness the title of royal town . the initiative be support by the Lord Lieutenant , BAE Systems , the local council , CandoFM , the Rotary Club and local art and community group . I wonder whether the Leader of the House might be able to advise I on how we can gain Government support for this initiative . I congratulate my hon . friend on his campaign , which sound like a very good initiative . I know that he be do a whole raft of thing to put the town of Barrow on the map . he be right to say that this contribution provide security not just to the UK , but to the world , particularly because of the AUKUS agreement and our work with our five Eyes partner . he will know that royal title application be run through the Cabinet Office . each decision be make on a case - by - case basis . I would be very happy to meet he and give he any further information that he need as his campaign gather and generate support . the Government claim to be on the side of business . Mayphil Industries , a global company with headquarters in Merthyr Tydfil , have be try , with my support , to secure a visa for essential training for a senior executive from Sri Lanka . the visa be approve on 3 October , but have not be issue . two month really be not satisfactory . perhaps , if the Government have an Immigration Minister , we could have a debate in Government time to discuss what can be do to support situation such as this and to make progress and improve the service for constituent . I be sorry to hear about that situation . that should not be the case at all . the hon . Gentleman will know that the Home Office be provide individual surgery opportunity for member of Parliament , either face to face or remotely , so that member can chase up these issue . if he give I the detail , I would be very happy to do that immediately after this session . this business should not be hold up get in the person that it need . as the House have have my undivided attention , I do not have the late news on appointment , but I shall also ensure that the Minister for Immigration have hear his concern . have my right hon . friend have a chance to look at early - day motion 114 ? [ that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , pray that the dangerous Dogs ( Designated Types ) ( England and Wales ) Order 2023 ( s . I . , 2023 , no . 1164 ) , date 31 October 2023 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 31 October 2023 , be annul . ] if so , be she impress by the fact that the motion have the support of not only Conservative Members but quite a lot of Opposition Members , include the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) ? the motion call on the Government to bring forward a debate before the ban on XL bully - type dog be implement at the end of December . she will know that some 650 , 000 people across the country have already sign a petition against what the Government be propose , because it be not only unfair but very vague . many dog owner do not know whether their dog will be include . this be most unsatisfactory legislation . should it not be debate in this House before it be implement ? I thank my hon . friend for put that on the record , and I think that be very helpful . he will know the motivation for bring in the legislation , but of course we need to provide clarity and reassurance to pet owner . give that the date of the next DEFRA question have not be announce , I will write on his behalf to alert the Secretary of State to early - day motion 114 and to ensure he have hear what my hon . friend have say . Madam Deputy Speaker , I hope you will allow I to pay a short tribute to Alistair Darling . Alistair and I work together in home affair throughout Roy Hattersley and Neil Kinnock ' s leadership . he be a great colleague and friend , and of course do a magnificent job as Chancellor in our dark day . Glenys Kinnock be also a long - term , old friend . my daughter work for she as a special adviser . she be family , and we miss she terribly . this be something of a personal appeal to the Leader of the House . I be a pretty robust individual , and I think everyone in the House know I be quite resilient . however , about 18 month ago I have a death threat from a gentleman who say he be come to London to kill I . over these last 18 month , this have absolutely haunt I . my home be now a fortress , my office be well protect and everything physically have be do to support I , but there be very little support , or not enough support , when a member get into this sort of situation . the gentleman who be come to do nasty thing to I be sectioned , but when he come out of the mental health hospital , all the administration tell I be , " he be out , and he know where you live " . I have to say that this 18 month have be a time of dreadful personal stress , and if it have not be for the support of my family and friend , I do not think I would have get through it . I have experience at first hand what it be like to be frightened to stand close to the railway station platform or on the tube , and to be look behind you all the time . my mental health , and I be a robust individual , have be very much put under stress , but this should not happen to member of the House . may I make an appeal to the Leader of the House to look at this kind of support — not just at the huge amount of money that have be spend on my fortress home , but at individual support — because I think every Member deserve well ? I thank the hon . Gentleman , and I be sure I do so on behalf of everyone in the Chamber and all colleague , for say that . of course , he will know that Mr Speaker and the House authority have do a huge amount of additional work , include some more recent thing , to ensure that all colleague be protect and have the physical security and support they need . however , he be absolutely right to put on record that this have a toll on an individual ' s wellbee , resilience and mental health . it be a terrible thing to have to endure . of course , right hon . and hon . member endure this in relation not just to harm to themselves , but to their family , their child and their staff , which be a very great weight to carry . I will certainly ensure that the House authority , and Mr Speaker when he return , have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say , and we will see what more we can do to support member . I add that we have conclude the large survey of member on this , and I know many member fill it in with their staff . for mental health and resilience , whether because of threat or the other issue people have to deal with — I know my staff be traumatise when we be deal with Operation Pitting , for example — additional mental health and pastoral support be very much need . I know there be an action plan follow the survey , and I thank all member who take part in it . may I pay tribute to the hon . member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) for his brave contribution ? that be difficult to do , and I be sorry to hear what he have be go through . to segue inelegantly from that , in Oxfordshire I have be contact by resident who rely on their pet for their mental health , who be concerned that when they go on walk , their pet go into river and then get sick . I can understand their concern because discharge in Oxfordshire be up 18 % . we hear just this week that the water quality at Port meadow in Oxfordshire have be rate poor for the third year in a row , which mean it risk lose its bathing water status . will the Leader of the House help I press the Government to take this threat to pet seriously ? in answer to a parliamentary question , they say they do not measure it . how can we get they to ? I be sorry to hear about the situation in the hon . Lady ' s constituency and local area . the date of the next Environment , Food and Rural Affairs question have not be announce , so I will write to the Secretary of State to make sure that he have hear what she have say . she will know there have be recent debate about what the Environment Agency and other monitoring body be actually monitor , how it be be monitor and what be in the public domain , and about make sure that the monitoring system of individual water company be really fit for purpose . I will write on the hon . Lady ' s behalf today . may I draw the attention of the Leader of the House to an emerge problem ? the Department for Work and Pensions require an estimate 5 , 000 net increase in staff every quarter if it be to undertake the increase workload arise from recent Government announcement , include some very recent one . yet the shocking new dossier publish this week by the Public and Commercial Services Union warn that the target be nowhere near be meet . staff morale be at rock bottom due to excessive workload , real - term pay cut and new restriction on home working . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on the staffing crisis in the DWP , and will she urge her ministerial colleague to meet the PCS trade union as a matter of urgency to try to find a way forward ? I thank the hon . gentleman for bring this to the House ' s attention and mine . I will certainly raise it with the Secretary of State . it be incredibly important for the general public that staff be able to answer their inquiry . there may be more we can do in this place in provide swift answer to people in the DWP who will want to know what recent announcement mean for they , and I think we can also provide a great deal of reassurance to member of the public in that respect . the next work and Pensions question will be on 18 December , and he can raise the matter then , but I shall also write on his behalf . punitive disciplinary policy in school be significantly harm child ' s mental health , particularly neurodivergent child . it seem that multi - academy trust leader be not accountable for their action and be impossible to hold to account , not least at South Bank MAT , where child be experience significant harm , school refusal and an escalation in issue with their mental wellbeing . can we have an urgent debate on call the leadership of multi - academy trust to account and ensure that governance structure be fit for purpose ? the hon . Lady raise a very important point . on the general point , I shall make sure that the Secretary of State have hear what she have say , and she can raise it directly with she next week . if the hon . Lady want to pass on to I the specific detail of the academy trust she be speak about , I shall make sure that the Secretary of State have also hear about that . there be mechanism for hold trust to account on certain thing , and ensure that they be meet child ' s special educational need be one of those thing . I shall make sure that the Department have hear about it . I thank the Leader of the House for the opportunity to ask a question on the state of freedom of religion or belief . many event in the House this week have rightly celebrate the 75th anniversary of the universal declaration on human right , include a debate in Westminster Hall this afternoon in which I will be participate . however , in the Philippines this week at least four people be kill and many more injure in an attack on a catholic mass , for which Islamic State have claim responsibility . an investigation into that attack be ongoing . will the Leader of the House join I in denounce the attack , call for care and justice for the victim and assure they that they have the support of the House of Commons , the great seat of democracy and the mother of Parliaments , and that we be do our good for they ? I thank the hon . gentleman for again afford the House the opportunity to send our thought , prayer and good wish to everyone who have be affect by that appalling attack . every week , he bring the attention of the House and the world to such event , which perhaps do not grab a lot of headline . it be important that we send a clear message that we be focus on these issue and will do everything we can to ensure that everyone in the world be allow to exercise their religious freedom . I thank he again for enable we to do that this week follow the appalling atrocity in the Philippines . I thank he also for the advert for the important debate this afternoon . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I can take only point of order that relate directly to the business statement . be that the case ? it be , Madam Deputy Speaker . in answer my question about early - day motion 114 , the Leader of the House say that she would write to the DEFRA Minister about it . however , when the subject be debate on 27 November in Westminster Hall , I ask the DEFRA Minister whether he would facilitate a debate on the statutory instrument , say that it be " obviously of great concern to many member of Parliament and even more so to our constituent , before it come into force on 31 December " . the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , my right hon . friend the Member for Sherwood ( Mark Spencer ) , respond : " I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . of course he will be fully aware that it be for parliamentary business manager to arrange such debate , but I will certainly have a conversation with those business manager follow this debate . " — [ Official Report , 27 November 2023 ; Vol . 741 , c . 223 - 24wh . ] I wonder whether that discussion ever take place . we be now in a situation where the Leader of the House say she rely on DEFRA to organise a debate , and a DEFRA Minister say it be for parliamentary business manager to organise . who be in charge , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I think that be a slight extension of business question rather than a point of order . be the hon . Gentleman ' s point of order that he wish to know how to gain further clarification on the matter ? indicate assent . rise — the hon . Gentleman be lucky that the Leader of the House be still here , and she indicate that she wish to make a response to his point of order . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) be a very experienced and diligent parliamentarian . he have do everything right : he have pursue the Department and not have satisfaction from it , and when right hon . and hon . member do not have satisfaction from a Department , they must bring their issue to business question . I hope they know that I will always follow up on their behalf , and I will do so in the case of my hon . friend . I will ensure that conversation take place and I will put pen to paper this afternoon . BBC Funding with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the BBC . the BBC be a great british institution and play a vital role in our culture and creative economy . it broadcast our value and identity all over the world , reach hundred of million of people every day . in January 2022 , the Government and BBC agree a six - year funding settlement , which freeze the licence fee at £ 159 for two year . the two - year freeze have already save every fee payer £ 17 over 2022 and 2023 . that settlement provide vital support for household when inflation be at its high , while give the BBC the funding it need to deliver on its remit . under the term of the settlement , the licence fee must now increase annually in line with the consumer price index , with the first increase due in April 2024 . the Government be commit to support family as much as possible during these difficult time . we recognise that bill rise be never welcome and family budget remain under pressure . today , I be announce that we will use the annual rate of CPI in September to calculate the increase of the BBC licence fee in April 2024 . this be the same way the Government calculate inflation - link increase to state pension and benefit . the decision mean next year ' s licence fee increase will be keep as low as possible . in April , the licence fee will rise by 6 . 7 % , to £ 169 . 50 annually . that will minimise the rise for household , keep it to £ 10 . 50 over the year , or 88p per month , rather than a rise of £ 14 . 50 that would have happen under the previous CPI measure . while we recognise that household budget remain under pressure , the decision , alongside the two - year freeze , will save individual licence fee payer over £ 37 by the end of 2024 . these intervention support household , while provide the BBC with £ 3 . 8 billion to produce its world - lead content . the Government engage with both the BBC and S4C to understand the impact on the finance of both broadcaster . the decision will ensure that S4C , which be also fund from the licence fee , can maintain its unique role in promote the Welsh language and support our public service broadcasting landscape . although we have take step to ensure that the uplift be keep as low as possible , we recognise that a £ 10 . 50 increase will still be feel by licence fee payer . the number of licence fee payer be also decline , with an increasingly competitive medium landscape . we need to make sure that the cost of the BBC do not rise exponentially , and that it be not bear by a small number of fee payer . we be already see an increase number of household choose not to hold a tv licence . the number of household hold tv licence fall by 400 , 000 last year , and have decline by around 1 . 7 million since 2017 - 18 . that be place increase pressure on the BBC ' s licence fee income . we be also see a rapidly change medium landscape , with more way for audience to watch content . the reach and view of broadcast tv fall significantly in 2022 , with weekly reach fall from 83 % in 2021 to 79 % in 2022 . as this trend continue , link the tv licence to watch live tv will become increasingly anachronistic , as audience viewing habit continue to move to digital and on - demand medium . we know that if we want the BBC to succeed , we can not freeze its income , but at the same time we can not ask household to pay more to support the BBC indefinitely . we be already support the BBC to realise commercial opportunity that will make it more financially sustainable , and will continue to explore they provisionally with the BBC . the situation clearly show the need to consider the BBC ' s funding arrangement to make sure they be fair for the public and sustainable for the BBC . therefore , I be also announce that today the Government be launch a review of the BBC ' s funding model . the review will look at how we can ensure the funding model be fair for the public , sustainable for the long term , and support the BBC ' s vital role in grow our creative industry . the review will be lead by the Department for Culture , Media and Sport and support by an expert panel . it will assess a range of option for fund the BBC . we be clear that we want the BBC to succeed . the review will include look at how the BBC can increase its commercial revenue to reduce the burden on licence fee payer . give pressure on household income , I can explicitly rule out this review look at create any new taxis . the finding of the review will support the Government to make an informed choice on whether to consult the public on move to alternative funding model . that would take place as part of the charter review process , in which any final decision on reform the BBC ' s funding model would be take . the BBC be a great national institution . we want to ensure that it be fit for the present and whatever the future hold , while keep cost down for the public . that mean ensure that the BBC be support by a funding model that be fair to audience , support the creative industry , and be sustainable in the age of digital and on - demand medium . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . work people listen to the Secretary of State ' s pitiful comment on support with the cost of living be not fool . they see exactly what this be . we have have weak , mealy - mouthed platitude that will make no material difference to their life . thirty - three penny a month per household be what I understand to be the difference between today ' s announcement and the deal the Government have already agree to . that be not nothing , but do the Secretary of State really think that it will even touch the side ? be she and the Prime Minister so out of touch that they think that will get people through the Tory cost of living crisis ? they crash the economy , send mortgage and rent sky - high . they hike taxis on work people . they have preside over 13 year of stagnant economic growth . what be the cost of the Government ' s announcement ? the creative industry be one of the good source of economic growth and quality job in the country , and the BBC be the big commissioner of work in the creative industry . have the Secretary of State work out the impact that choose that particular inflationary measure will have on economic growth and job ? have she work out the effect that it will have on the other creative business the BBC commission and their supply chain ? have she work out what difference it will make to the BBC ' s crucial role as our soft - power superpower , promote brand Britain around the world ? have she work out what the impact will be on democracy , give the BBC ' s role as the most trusted source of news anywhere in the world ? when it come to the funding model review , I understand that the term of reference be overtly focus on the commercial side of the BBC . I do not hear a word about the public service element of the BBC . the Secretary of State mention an expert panel . can she tell we who will be on it ? what timetable will it work to ? where will the public service element feature in the Government ' s term of reference ? have the Government actually give up on the BBC as a public service broadcaster ? I be afraid to say that it all sound like yet more broken Tory promise . this be no way to treat one of our great institution , and no way to treat the million of people who work at the BBC , their partner and the people around the country who value they so much . let we not forget that this come on the back of a two - year freeze that have already have a damaging impact . this be just the late sign of chaotic decision making by a flailing , fail Government lead by a Prime Minister who be too weak to control his own party and by Ministers who make work people pay for their mistake . it be a sign of the disdain that the Tories have for the role that there have be 12 secretary of State for DCMS in 13 year ; it top the reshuffle chart , bring instability to a Department for economic growth . our great institution , our public service and work people just can not take any more of this chaos . labour back the BBC . we will grow our creative industry and spread the benefit across the country . a general election can not come a moment too soon . I think the shadow Secretary of State need to live in the real world like the rest of we . People be struggle with the cost of living , and the Government have continue to take step to protect they . she need to live in the real world , in which the medium landscape be change . it be totally inappropriate just to sit still and do nothing , because that would destroy the BBC and make it unable to live in this change world , and it would do nothing to protect licence fee payer . if that be the Labour plan , I do not want see it . the shadow Secretary of State talk about what we be do for work family . she know that this be not the only step that we be take . we have spend £ 97 billion support family across the country , save a typical family about £ 3 , 300 , and cut inflation by half . the hon . Lady mention the creative industry . she might have forget that since I have be in this role , I have use tax relief to support the creative industry . the Labour party vote against that . in fact , the conservative party have bring in tax relief for the creative industry year on year for 10 year , and they be vote down by the Opposition on every single occasion . labour do not support the creative industry . the shadow Secretary of State for Education , the hon . member for Houghton and Sunderland South ( Bridget Phillipson ) , say that we should be spend more money in school not on the creative industry , but on other . under this Conservative Government , the creative industry be grow at double the rate of the rest of the economy and employ 2 million people . I will happily update the shadow Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport on other detail relate to the panel . the timetable be that the report will come into play , to I , by the autumn of 2024 . I call the Father of the House . at the risk of correct the hon . member for Bristol West ( Thangam Debbonaire ) , I think the Housing Minister have change more often than the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport . I say to my right hon . and learn Friend the Secretary of State that I do not think that anyone will go to the stake for the difference between the September CPI and other , although we can note that , be the BBC licence fee to go up by another 10 % , it would still be 50p a week per household , which be probably the good value in broadcasting anywhere . I be worried that the Government have decide , again , to make a decision without consult Parliament . if we be to have a public broadcaster fund by a licence fee or some equivalent , Parliament should be bring in more often by government . this be probably the fourth time that there have be an announcement of what will happen without Parliament have be consult first . I hope that my right hon . and learn Friend and other will say that Parliament should be bring in . if the choice be between the United States model and public broadcasting , Parliament ought to be able make its view know . the House will have notice that the Secretary of State say that the review will look at alternative option for fund the BBC and then say that she " can … rule out … create any new taxis . " I think that it be Parliament that decide whether we have taxis . the review may want to consider some kind of household payment , whatever we call it — at present it be call the licence fee ; if we do not call it a tax , we call it a charge or something else — or something to be take from exist taxation . if the BBC be a public benefit , why not add to whatever household pay for the licence fee the imply tax on the income that they use to pay it , for example ? that would allow the income from exist taxis to go up . the BBC need defender , and I be one of they . as long as I be here , the Government can expect detailed attention , and a great deal of support for do sensible thing . I , too , be a defender of the BBC . it provide an outstanding service across the world . I be proud to have see at first hand the fantastic job that it do for Eurovision , for the coronation and for the last night of the Proms . if we be to create something that spread our value and soft power abroad , we could not do well than create the BBC . I certainly do not want to see its service diminish , but I want to ensure that it continue to survive in this change medium world . at the moment , it be lose audience and licence fee payer , and I want to help to support it . that be one thing that we will look at carefully in the review . the Father of the House rightly mention the importance of discussion and consultation . my door be open to all those who want to raise point with I . of course , in due course , we will need to consult , and this be part of the charter review , which will involve a wide consultation exercise . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . the Conservatives agree to increase the licence fee in line with inflation , but their own economic mismanagement mean more misery for UK citizen . the Government be now desperately try to wriggle on how they calculate inflation for the purpose of this agreement . there be a pattern among those on the Government Benches that they will breach an agreement , convention or protocol whenever it suit they . let the Conservatives take responsibility for this BBC uplift , as the need for the rise be entirely due to their mismanagement of the economy . we all have some criticism of the BBC . sometimes they be centre on its domestic news coverage , but the BBC go far beyond that , extend to drama , radio , documentary , Gaelic broadcasting and sport coverage . to those who would ding doon the public service broadcaster , I say : be very careful what you wish for . of course , for many Tories the ideal would be GB News 24 hour a day , with Tory mps talk to Tory mps about Tory policy . I believe it be know as " GBeebies " , as one Tory MP after another be wheel in to rant culture war tosh at the camera , in a pale imitation of american shock jock . it be a breach of Ofcom rule . democracy need tough journalism and mps scrutinise in long - format interview by objective journalist . we have see what the cut lead to . the BBC agree , most foolishly , to take responsibility for over - 75 ' licence , under the previous director general , Tony Hall . that have lead to cut in news , most recently at " Newsnight " , which I be once proud to serve as a reporter . the BBC oppose the Government ' s renege on their agreement on that at the time , and we have see the result . in the year to come , the BBC may need a different funding format , but that time be not now . in closing , may I ask the Secretary of State , on behalf of my colleague on the Select Committee , to explain why the news of the new BBC chair be leak to the press , rather than be give directly to Committee member or the Committee Chair ? I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s point . he mention many important part of the BBC and other outlet . I be in favour of plurality of the medium , so that we get a wide variety of voice . of course , the preferred candidate as chair be announce and they will be go before his Committee in due course . one important aspect of public service broadcasting be regional news . we have already experience cut to BBC local radio , but regional news programme , such as the Lincolnshire and Yorkshire edition of " look North " , which serve my constituency , be greatly value by my constituent . will my right hon . and learn Friend give an assurance that the BBC will continue with the current level of regional news broadcast ? the BBC be , of course , operationally independent and it be not for the Government to say what it should provide . however , I remind my hon . friend and the House that the BBC be there to provide a public service and it have a public purpose : to reflect , represent and serve the diverse community of all of the UK . the BBC must also support the creative economy across the UK . of course regional and local news and other output be an important part of that . may I ask the Secretary of State to get real ? I be secretary of the National Union of Journalists parliamentary group , and it have other member here . she know that as sure as night follow day there will be the loss of journalistic job as a result of this cut , at a key time , when we be go into a general election and they be desperately need . why do she not admit that this be a revenge attack for all those time at 10 - past 8 on the BBC ' s " today " programme when Ministers , have be ask question by Nick Robinson , Mishal Husain , Justin Webb , Amol Rajan or Martha Kearney , have flounder to answer a basic , straight question ? the review be an overlying threat to the BBC about its behaviour in hold this government to account . I do not accept anything that the right hon . Gentleman have just say . the purpose of the review be to ensure that the BBC can continue to provide its exceptional and outstanding service for decade to come . if we just sit on our hand and do nothing , it will be overtake by other medium outlet that be compete in the world . we need to ensure that the BBC have a sustainable financial platform from which to provide its outstanding service . I have always love the BBC . as a kid grow up and since , I have be blow away by the quality of its broadcasting ; by its sport , music , culture , radio , nature , news and , of course , humour — even though I feel we have lose something with this endless thirst for political correctness . however , I have be increasingly concerned in recent month by the political bias creep in , notably with individual commentary from presenter , through tweet and with inaccuracy in report . the BBC be a public service broadcaster ; it be not a political organisation . so do the Secretary of State agree that the BBC have much more to do here to fully justify its publicly fund licence fee ? the heart of my hon . friend ' s question be about the BBC ' s impartiality . I know that the BBC strive hard to maintain impartiality , with its 10 - point plan , but at its heart the BBC need to provide an impartial service , because if it do not do so , it should not be get licence fee payer ' money and it be just the same as every other organisation . that be why it need to continue to strive , as I know it do , to ensure that it provide impartial output . we should put on the record how lucky we be to have this public service broadcaster . we have just have a statement from the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office about russian interference in our democracy , where this House raise its concern ahead of the possible election , which will perhaps come soon rather than later . how do the Secretary of State think that do this and cut the BBC ' s budget by £ 90 million be go to help resilience in the whole of society in an election year , when we know that misinformation and disinformation by malign state have never be more of a threat ? I wish to correct the hon . lady : we be not cut the BBC ' s budget but increase it , by 6 . 7 % . what we be not do be increase it by 9 % . she will know from speak to company or household in her constituency whether those company have have a 9 % increase in their funding . have the Government have a 9 % increase in their funding ? we be create a careful balance to ensure that we support the BBC with this rise of 6 . 7 % to provide those service , while think carefully about the cost of living and bill for household up and down the country . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for her statement on restrict the increase in the BBC licence fee . I also recognise the reassurance she have give S4C , which be face a particularly challenging time and need stability . as she say , the licence fee still raise £ 3 . 8 billion . department , local authority and most public organisation have to publish detail and invoice in respect of sum in excess of £ 500 . I have try on two occasion in the House to introduce legislation to force the BBC to do the same . within the review , will she consider how we can increase transparency and scrutiny of the £ 3 . 8 billion that be spend , so that we can introduce well efficiency gain and scrutinise closely where money might be waste ? my right hon . friend make an interesting point . I do not think it will form part of this review , but it be an interesting point that I will reflect on and consider far . I wish to declare that I , too , be an officer of the NUJ parliamentary group — in fact , I be its co - chair . may I point out to the Minister the damaging impact of dramatic cut already be implement by the BBC management , include to the value BBC local radio service , which we have discuss in this House on several occasion , to highly regard investigative journalist job , most notably and recently on " Newsnight " , and to local news output ? give that inflation have be substantially high than expect during the two - year licence fee freeze and give , as my hon . friend the Member for Bristol West ( Thangam Debbonaire ) say from the Front Bench , that the BBC be the big commissioner of the creative industry in the UK , will the Minister , in her review of the funding model , please ensure that the BBC have enough funding to maintain the high quality in commission , production and broadcasting ? I be absolutely committed to ensure that our creative industry continue to thrive and have set a very high ambition in that space . as I have say , I want to see the creative industry grow by £ 50 billion and have a million extra job by 2030 . we be already see that growth , with the creative industry grow at twice the rate of the rest of the economy . I have help ensure that the creative industry get tax relief . in June they have further funding of £ 70 million , which will leverage further private investment . there be an announcement in the recent autumn statement about further support for visual effect through the tax system . I be absolutely back the creative industry . I want they to thrive and we be put in place mechanism to ensure that they survive . the BBC be part of that and be one of the thing that I will take into account . I welcome the statement from my right hon . and learn Friend . what further step be she take to encourage the BBC to maximise its commercial revenue in order to minimise the burden on licence fee payer ? my hon . friend make an important point . I want to see a thriving BBC that can compete internationally and be get further income . there be lot of opportunity for the BBC to explore , and I want to work with it very closely on those and understand they in great deal . whether that mean international work and international charging or partnership and joint venue , I want to make sure that the BBC have every opportunity to maximise its commercial income . I have always be a staunch defender of the BBC , not least because my late parent meet when they both work for the corporation , so I would not be here otherwise . however , the increase challenge for news coverage and the bias that have creep in have be of concern to my constituent . I write to the director - general follow the broadcasting of Hamas propaganda on the attack on the Gaza hospital . that be leave up on the BBC website literally all day , create community tension in my constituency . there be not a word of apology , not a retraction and not even a reply from the director - general . as we approach this review , can we make sure that build into it be the requirement for absolute impartiality and fact - checking of news before it be post ? my hon . friend make a really important point : because the BBC be so respected throughout the world , and because it have a reputation for provide impartial and accurate news , when it get it wrong — in this case , it do get it wrong and it have admit , now , that it do — the impact of that be more significant than when any other news outlet get it wrong . particularly on issue such as the one that my hon . friend mention , where there be consequence of inaccurate reporting both in the region and here , include for the jewish community at home and the antisemitism that result from that , it be so important that the BBC take time to reflect and make sure that when it put its news out , it be accurate . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and for provide clarity . I be sure that she be well aware of my feeling about BBC reporting , which seem to be drive to a certain leaning and by an agenda that I have issue with — other have mention that as well . however , some of the programming be target at small and specific audience , such as the Ulster Scots — I be very proud to be an Ulster Scot and I seek more Ulster Scots programme on the BBC regionally — or the heritage programme , which be always beautifully do . how will the Secretary of State ensure that the tightening that be do relate to pay presenter exorbitant wage , as oppose to cut the niche programming that be necessary for the preservation of culture and heritage , which I love ? I thank the hon . member for his important question . I must emphasise that the BBC be operationally independent . it have a duty to provide diverse news and cultural programme that be particular and relevant to the region , and it must fulfil that duty under the term of the charter and its public service mission . the decision about who the BBC employ and what it pay be a matter for it , but it have obligation relate to transparency . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement , and particularly the review of whether the BBC be be fair to taxpayer . I have to say , constituent in Southend and Leigh - on - Sea do not consider that they get value for money from the licence fee , and nor do they think that £ 3 . 8 billion be a good amount for the licence fee . many have write to I to express profound concern about the BBC ' s coverage of the horrendous conflict between Israel and Hamas . this be about not just the BBC ' s failure to talk about Hamas as an internationally proscribe terrorist organisation , but their genuine belief that BBC bias be stoke anti - israel sentiment in our country , which , as I be sure the Secretary of State will agree , be very concerning . so will the review cover three point , as well as all the other : first , the impartiality of content ; secondly , whether the licence fee should be mandatory any long ; and thirdly , the need to decriminalise non - payment of the licence fee ? I understand my hon . friend ' s concern about the language that the BBC have choose to use in relation to Hamas . I have make clear my view — they be public on this issue — and I have state on the record and raise with the BBC privately that Hamas be a terrorist organisation both legally and factually , and that it be important to call they what they be . as for her constituent ' concern , all of we , of course , get comment from our constituent , and that be an excellent avenue for people to pursue . however , I remind her constituent and other that there be also formal channel through which they can make their view know , if they feel strongly that they should pursue those matter . we be look at impartiality in the mid - term review , which we will publish shortly . like she , I be also concerned about the prosecution of people and I have say that I will look at that in the charter review . I welcome the announcement of the funding model review . it be the responsible thing to do give the change medium landscape that my right hon . and learn Friend mention . however , my constituent will raise an eyebrow at the BBC ' s price go up this year to deliver less , with the BBC have close the Oxford newsroom and make severe cut to three Counties Radio . will she lock into the review a mechanism so that if the licence fee be to remain compulsory for those wish to have a television , there have to be a consumer test to properly monitor what viewer actually want to watch and listen to ? as always , my hon . friend make some interesting point . as we look at the licence fee review and the funding review , it be really important that we consider all aspect very carefully . the BBC be there to provide a great service to the public , and that be what the public expect . Bill Presented Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary James Cleverly , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary Oliver Dowden and Michael Tomlinson , present a Bill to make provision about the removal of certain migrant to the Republic of Rwanda . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Monday 11 December , and to be print ( Bill 38 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 38 - en ) . Backbench Business tackle Islamophobia I beg to move , that this House have consider the matter of tackle Islamophobia . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for agree to this general debate on tackle Islamophobia . I also thank the all - party parliamentary group on british Muslims , and particularly its co - chair , my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) and the hon . member for Peterborough ( Paul Bristow ) , for their continue work to push this debate and for their ongoing effort to tackle Islamophobia . it must be note , however , that member of this House have , over several year , repeatedly request that government time be grant to debate such a pertinent issue , but those call have fall on deaf ear . the Minister will no doubt tell we that the Government take this issue seriously . oh , the gaslighting . I assure all those listen to this debate , who might not really understand the issue , that when muslim community speak up on the issue of Islamophobia , we be not look for preferential treatment . in fact , quite the opposite . we be ask for equal treatment , free of discrimination , injustice and hatred . in the US , the Biden Administration have form an inter - agency working group to counter rise level of Islamophobia . in Canada , Prime Minister Justin Trudeau have appoint the first ever special representative on combat Islamophobia to advise the federal Government . the United Nations designate 15 March as the International Day to Combat Islamophobia , follow the General Assembly ' s acceptance of a resolution propose by the 60 muslim member state of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation . and yet , despite all this — despite the US , Canada , the UN , 60 muslim nation around the world and almost every mainstream muslim organisation in the UK , and Muslims more generally , define the experience as Islamophobic — our Government refuse even to call it Islamophobia . internationally , government be stand up to this dangerous , insidious threat to our community but , here in the UK , this Government be shamefully still play with semantic . accord to the late statistic , there have be a 600 % rise in Islamophobic incident here in the UK , include both verbal and physical abuse as well as vandalism , such as the dumping of a pig ' s head at a propose mosque in the market town of Barnoldswick . that be not all that be happen when it come to Islamophobia . the recorded incident be just a snapshot of a picture that be much ugly than any stat can paint . make no mistake , Islamophobia be an entire industry . the reality be that Islamophobia have become an acceptable prejudice . in fact , you can openly spout Islamophobia and nobody , neither politician nor journalist , will even bat an eyelid . sadly , almost no one will speak up or challenge it . in fact , you can be a former adviser to a Prime Minister and the current conservative parliamentary candidate for West Suffolk and advocate for special law just to deal with Muslims , include : create a register of imam and mosque ; close down mosque , muslim charity and muslim tv station ; and ban the burqa and the hijab in school . you can call for a whole legal structure to deal with those Muslims , as if they be a specific problem . and guess what ? you can continue to be a conservative party member and prospective parliamentary candidate without any consequence . you can suggest that muslim culture be inherently in " the grip of a death cult that sacralise bloodshed " and a week later , without any apology , be invite on to platform such as " Question Time " as a key guest . you can also say that Muslims " be not like we " and be a " nation within a nation " , sow the seed of division and hate without ever retract those statement , never mind apologise for the hurt they have cause to community . and guess what ? you can get a regular slot as a presenter on a mainstream news channel . you can even be an open Islamophobe like Douglas Murray , who call for condition for Muslims in Europe to be make hard across the board , and be platforme by the Daily Telegraph and the jewish Chronicle , and — wait for this one — even be defend at the Dispatch Box by the then Home Secretary . on the one hand , under the banner of free speech , you can say pretty much anything about Muslims and Islam and still occupy a mainstream space . on the other hand , when thousand of people use their democratic right to protest and raise their voice to call for a cease - fire in Gaza and to support the palestinian cause , they be label as " hate marcher " and " terrorist sympathiser . " even the Prime Minister join the former Home Secretary in aid that dog - whistle politic . this be no surprise to british Muslims , because we all know that this Government have make Islamophobia the central piece in their manufacture culture war to deflect from their incompetence and their failure to govern this nation . as the saying go , the proof be in the pudding . only in the last hour we have hear the shocking revelation from the hon . member for Gillingham and Rainham ( Rehman Chishti ) , who be a former Minister and a former vice - chair of the Conservative party , that the PM have " write off " engagement with muslim community and do not take Islamophobia as seriously as other form of racism . he have go far by say that the Prime Minister be pay " lip service " to tackle hatred against Muslims . despite everything that british Muslims be face , I can not remember the last time a Prime Minister or a Home Secretary visit a mosque to show a gesture of support to british muslim community . the failure to support british muslim community at a time when they be worried about attack , and at a time when the Government ' s own hate crime reporting centre have see a 600 % rise in attack , show that the problem go right to the heart of Government . not only Labour mp be say that ; conservative mp be concern , too . the hypocrisy and the disparity in behaviour from the Government stink . british muslim community want a level playing field so that they be equally part of modern Britain , of build our economy , build our NHS , build our business and entrepreneurship , and build Britain to be the good nation in the world . british Muslims know and understand that if Britain succeed , they and their family succeed . I want people across society to understand that when all community , include british Muslims , succeed , Britain succeed — we all succeed . the success we should have be hinder by the racism face by muslim community across Britain today . nobody be ask for exceptional treatment . they be simply ask for parity . if the Government can allow other community to define the prejudice and hatred that impact they , why can they not allow british muslim community to define Islamophobia ? if the Government can engage with mainstream organisation from other community , why do they pursue a policy of non - engagement with mainstream muslim organisation such as the Muslim Council of Britain ? if , at a time when antisemitism be on a sharp rise , the Chancellor can rightfully announce an extra £ 7 million of funding in the autumn statement to tackle it , why , at a time when Islamophobia be also rise , do he refuse to announce a single penny of extra support for british muslim community in the same statement ? if the Government can have a work independent adviser on antisemitism , why , three and a half year after the announcement of an independent adviser on Islamophobia , have they be unable to appoint one or to take the role forward ? I hope the Minister be make note , because I expect a response to every single one of these disparity . where I come from , you can not be a bit pregnant — you be either pregnant or you be not . you be either on the side of equality or you be not . in the same vein , you either stand up for human right or you do not . the problem for this Government be that they choose when they want to be pregnant . they never actually see the pregnancy through to full term , which be why they have never give birth to a serious policy , let alone nurture a policy to drive a change that help Britain to reach its full potential as a country . Madam Deputy Speaker , if you will allow I to indulge my curiosity , I be eager to know , four year after announce an adviser , announce a work definition of Islamophobia and announce that they take anti - muslim hatred so seriously , what progress the Government have actually make in respond to the urgency they insist upon . moreover , what do the Minister understand Islamophobia to be ? I would be happy to give way to she if she would like to explain — that deafen silence allow Islamophobia , in all its pernicious form , to thrive . accord to Home Office statistic , hate crime target Muslims rise by 25 % last year , make Muslims the most targeted religious group . almost half of religiously motivate attack be against Muslims , a trend that have stay consistent for the last six year . every year these statistic be release , and every year there be zero action take by the Government . what be bad be refuse to call out Islamophobia . stick to the term " anti - muslim hatred " recognise the consequence once an attack , assault or physical or verbal abuse have take place , but it deny Islamophobia , so nothing be ever do to treat the cause . instead , we respond only to the symptom . this mean that we recognise the murder of 81 - year - old Mushin Ahmed from Rotherham , but we do nothing to challenge the radicalisation that influence his killer , who call he a " groomer " , stamp on his head and beat that innocent grandfather to death as he return from his early - morning prayer . it mean that , on the one hand , we call out his murder and that , on the other hand , we allow mainstream voice , include those of many in this House and some who be previously in government , to perpetuate far - right conspiracy about muslim grooming gang , contradict evidence from the Home Office ' s own inquiry . People do not just wake up and decide to commit act of terror against Muslims . they do not just attack a mosque one day to commit criminal damage . they do not just randomly pull someone ' s hijab or whack a hijab - wear muslim woman over the head because they be violent people . they do these thing because they be radicalise by Islamophobic conspiracy that go unchallenged . in the same manner , this issue be not just about hate ; it be about the prejudice and racism face by british Muslims . a newspaper investigation have show that if someone simply change their name to Mohammed from John Smith , while keep all the other detail the same , their car insurance could cost they another £ 1 , 000 . other research have show that cv with Muslim - sound name be three time less likely to result in an interview . we see the same disparity across the board in healthcare , business and society . these act of prejudice and clearcut racism be not necessarily act of hate , but the unwillingness to accept Islamophobia and the willingness to accept only anti - muslim hate mean that no one be able to understand those disparity or to challenge that injustice . how can we define something we do not even understand ? that be why member of the muslim community be not surprise by the alarming rise of Islamophobia and anti - muslim hate crime . they see the everyday micro - aggression throughout society . they see how people can say thing on the medium about Muslims , and how they can fuel hatred against they in a way that no one would accept with any other community , but still maintain the cloak of respectability in mainstream space . many people now fear for their child ' s future in Britain , and those who can afford to do so be leave . some of the bright , most intelligent mind , include our good doctor , engineer , banker and trader , who can help to rebuild Britain , transform our economy and support our NHS , and who love Britain and be british , be look to resettle due to fear of what will happen as thing get bad . that be why I say to the Government that muslim community be not ask for special treatment . they simply see the Government ' s own record statistic on attack against Muslims rise each year . they see their government ' s inaction and unwillingness to take control . they see , on the one hand , how thing be become bad and , on the other hand , how they be be patronise and gaslit by a Government who will not even call Islamophobia what it be . the Government ' s inaction have directly or indirectly allow Islamophobia to become institutionalised , embed and even normalise across society . in China , there be Uyghur Muslims in concentration camp be force to eat pork and drink alcohol , while muslim woman be be force to marry non - muslim man . in Myanmar , we have see the genocidal campaign to wipe out Rohingya Muslim community , with more than 25 , 000 kill and almost 1 million refugee flee to Cox ' s Bazar . in Modi ' s India , with extremist group such as the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh , we see an environment ripe for pogrom against Muslims . at this moment , we be witness collective punishment be endure by the people of Gaza . with the horror of Srebrenica in live memory , the road map of inaction and grow far - right narrative , it be all too clear to muslim community where we could be head . my warning to the Government be that , if we do not act now , Muslims in this country might also face a christchurch - style terrorist attack . the recent election of Geert Wilders in the Netherlands should worry we . Fringe , extreme view enter the mainstream when they be leave unchecked . we can tackle this rise tide of hate only when good people speak up , when we become upstander and not bystander , and when we agree and openly believe that Muslims also matter . if government such as mine can call out the treatment of Uyghur Muslims in China and can implement sanction , how can they be so silent or offer only empty word when international law be brazenly and openly ignore by an ally nation ? true justice take brave conversation , because it mean speak truth to power , whether it be to a friend or anybody else . for that reason , I recently accompany my local dean , Andy Bowerman from Bradford cathedral , on a visit to Jaranwala in Pakistan with Islamic Relief — a muslim charity for which I be an ambassador . I meet christian community and provide they with aid and support follow the religious persecution they have face . as a Muslim of Pakistan / Kashmiri heritage , I feel it be my duty to support these minority community face persecution . among the many story I hear , the one that strike I the most be about how their muslim neighbour stand between they and their attacker as their life be put in danger — an act of bravery , courage and solidarity . I mention that because people do not expect everyone to fix their problem , but one thing that do give they hope in the darkest of day be the real sense of solidarity they receive from other who stand with they . let we stand together and challenge all injustice equally . my ask to the Minister be simple : will she today announce any new solution and policy that the Government will act on to help tackle Islamophobia ? the debate on the appg definition of Islamophobia be over . Islamophobia have be define . that boat sail five year ago . when will the Minister and the Government adopt the definition ? three and a half year ago , at the same time as they announce an adviser on antisemitism , the Government announce an adviser on Islamophobia . three and a half year later , there be rightly still an adviser on anti - semitism , so why be the Government not take seriously , and recruit somebody for , the role of Islamophobia adviser ? give the rise level of Islamophobia across society — this be much like what we see with the announcement in the autumn statement — what new funding will the Minister announce to enable we to tackle deep - root Islamophobia ? there be good colleague here on both side of the Chamber , and from all party , call out Islamophobia and the Government ' s failure . if the Minister do not provide answer and solution today but prefer to use her time at the Dispatch Box to far gaslight british muslim community , that will once again signal to they that the Government will do nothing to challenge the Islamophobia they face and will signal to wide society that there be a hierarchy in racism . although inaction may mean nothing to the Government , the danger of not act would , sadly , be feel by british Muslims . take no decision be also a decision . before I start my remark , I direct member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' financial interest . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Hyndburn ( Sara Britcliffe ) , who be suppose to co - sponsor the debate . we work closely together on this issue , and I pay tribute to she and her constituent . she have a large and vibrant muslim community — a community she care deeply about . as in many constituency up and down the country , community in Hyndburn be particularly concerned about the impact of the conflict in Gaza , which have see a rise in Islamophobia , but which be , above all , take an awful toll on innocent civilian . I know that my hon . friend be make , and will continue to make , every effort to represent her constituent on that issue at this challenging time . last month be Islamophobia Awareness Month . I speak to an audience at an event organise in my constituency by the Joint Mosques Council , and I pay tribute to Abdul Choudhuri , its chair , for put on that event . I also pay tribute to the Muslim Council of Peterborough , which be chair by Mohammad Ayub Choudry . at that event , I tell a story , which I will tell again . in the summer of 2019 , in the run - up to the by - election , where I come a stunning third , I be knock on door and I knock on the door of a gentleman call Amir Suleman . he say to I , " Paul , I want to know your view on the all - party parliamentary group definition of Islamophobia . " I look at he rather blankly ; I do not know what to say — I do not have much to say at all . I vaguely know that the issue be be discuss , but I have no in - depth knowledge about it , and I feel ashamed . I be seek to represent thousand and thousand of muslim constituent , and I know nothing about the appg definition that he have contribute to and that matter so much to many member of the community and to the constituent I seek to represent . what do I do about it ? I promise Amir there and then that I would further my knowledge and become involved in the APPG , should I win the election . follow two or three rather embarrassing interview on Salaam Radio , and have become the Member of Parliament for Peterborough , I be proud to stand with the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) as the co - chairman of the all - party parliamentary group on british Muslims . Amir Suleman challenge I , and he be right to do so . he be my friend , and I be proud to represent he . as we hear from the hon . member for Bradford West ( Naz Shah ) , the APPG definition be solid and sound , and the Government should adopt it . they do decide to produce their own working definition , but they be still without an adviser to replace the one who , sadly , be remove from that position , and they seem to have get themselves into a difficult situation . they do not seem to know what to do about this , and I hope the Minister will tell I what she be go to do about it , but let I suggest a solution : they should adopt the appg definition , which they could have do many year ago . we do not have to go through this any more . the appg definition have be adopt by many different people and organisation , and if the Government adopt it , their problem would be solve instantly . however , I do not want to talk only about negative aspect of the muslim community . I want to talk about some positive aspect , because Peterborough would not be Peterborough without that community . I be proud of some of the APPG ' s report since I have be involve in it , because they show not just the challenge face by Muslims but the contribution that their community make to this country . I be proud of the fact that Muslims contribute £ 31 billion to the UK economy , and anyone who visit Peterborough will find the sign of that be not hard to see . some of the wealthy people in Peterborough be Muslims . they be entrepreneur , they set up business , and they have do fantastically well in contribute to Peterborough ' s economy . when it come to charitable giving and go the extra mile , the muslim community do that in spade . I do not know for certain , but I would bet a dinner at one of the top restaurant in Peterborough that the time when the large amount be raise for charity in my city be Ramadan . million of pound be raise and go to good cause . that be just one example of the contribution that Muslims make , not just in Peterborough but throughout the country . one of the APPG ' s report , " faith as the Fourth Emergency Service " , draw attention to that charitable contribution to good cause in the UK . the contribution of this community have never be see more clearly than during the covid pandemic . we have many different community in Peterborough , and many different faith . we believe different thing , we speak different language , and we come from different part of the world . however , when it come to support one another and support the vulnerable , we in Peterborough come together as one city . that show what a contribution muslim community , and other , can make when the country be face an emergency . many member , include the hon . member for Bradford West today , have talk about the challenge that Muslims have face — insidious and often silent form of Islamophobia involve , for instance , car insurance and be ask to pay more for service . I see this all the time in Peterborough . a friend of mine , a Muslim conservative councillor , often change his name to an English - sound one when try to buy a house in order to get a foot in the door , but when he go to view the house , he be tell , " actually , it have already be sell . " that have happen to he on a number of occasion , and it be an example of everyday Islamophobia . we can not turn a blind eye to it ; we must call it out when we see it , and we see it all too often . in preparation for the debate , I ask my constituent — through my Facebook page , whose follower be 11 , 000 - strong — to tell I about their experience of Islamophobia . let I read out a few of their response . the first be from Kaoru Miyake , who write : " Islamophobia come from ignorance , stereo type and fear of unknown . ordinary Muslims have no connection to Hamas , ISIS or other terrorist group . " all too often , she suggest , it be assume that they do have such a connection , and I fear that she be right . Suzette Weston , who , obviously , be not a Muslim , write : " it be easy for ignorant people to call all Muslims terrorist than to take the time to understand a vast majority be just love family people . " I entirely agree with she . Ahmed , another constituent , write : " there must be a strong campaign to unite and educate the public on the issue of islamophobia and anti - Semitism , and how the conflict we be see today " arise from ignorance . I could not have put it well myself . these be ordinary people , and I often find that if I ask ordinary people in my constituency for their view , they respond in their drove with common - sense observation . let I , for a moment , talk in my capacity as a Conservative MP . when I campaign in my constituency — when I knock on door and speak to constituent — I find that the value of Muslims be value that I share , as a Conservative . they be entrepreneur ; they believe in low tax , in family value and in strong community . if we be able to talk about international issue in an empathetic and understanding way , if we be able to understand what the death or persecution of a muslim mean , anywhere in the world — whether it happen next door , or in Kashmir , Gaza or Myanmar — we could lead the muslim community in this country . if we could do that , my party would probably receive many more vote from a community that have sometimes be see , shamelessly , as a vote bank for the Labour party . if we be able to get our language right , we would reap the reward . have talk about international situation , I now want to talk briefly about the ongoing conflict in Gaza . we have see an increase in antisemitism , obviously , but also an increase in Islamophobia as a result of that conflict . the revulsion that ordinary Muslims in place such as Peterborough feel about the death of innocent people in Gaza , and about the people who be suffer collective punishment for the crime of Hamas — people who have do nothing wrong , but be see their home be destroy and bomb land on their home and in their community — can not be overstate . thousand , undoubtedly , have die , and many building have be destroy . I struggle to understand how any of this make Israel any safe . we need a permanent ceasefire in Gaza . I write to the Prime Minister about this some time ago , and my feeling be exactly the same now . we give peace a chance when we have a temporary truce . More than 80 hostage be release , and the bombing stop . we need to give peace a chance permanently . I be grateful to the all - party parliamentary group for british Muslims for remind I before the debate that mine be the constituency with the 77th large number of Muslims . they constitute about 13 . 5 % of the population there — about 16 , 000 people . to put that in context , the muslim population in my constituency be itself hugely diverse and have community from Africa , Asia , the middle east and indeed from Europe . that be within a constituency where almost half the total population be bear outside the UK . it be a very liberal and very tolerant constituency , and I have always be extremely proud to represent it and to live there in the heart of the community . unfortunately , however , even in normal time there be significant number of hate crime . I be shocked that , nationally , 44 % of all hate crime be commit against Muslims . I be shocked that 42 % of mosque have experience some form of attack over the last three year . we have have incident where woman go about their ordinary business have have their headscarf pull off and be abuse . there be a great deal of what one might call casual — though by no mean trivial — racism where , in the context of the neighbourly dispute that we all deal with as mp , people ' s religion be bring up , often from a position of entire ignorance . I be strike by the fact that quite a lot of non - Muslims be also subject to Islamophobic abuse , presumably on the ground of their ethnicity . Complacency be the enemy here ; we need to educate people as much as we can , but we also need to punish people , and I be sure that all hon . member present be work with their local police on tackle Islamophobia and hate crime . it be also the case that muslim community , who often be disproportionately in poor housing , suffer from poverty and other form of injustice and live in overcrowded and damp condition , be neglect and do not get their fair share of resource . one particular type of discrimination be the lack of prayer space and community space . for many muslim community , the mosque be not just a place of prayer and worship , but an educational , social and cultural hub . particularly in area such as London , where land and property be hugely expensive , that be make very difficult . we live in straiten time but , through the lottery and other money , there be potential to provide that . however , increasingly I see muslim community not have the resource that they should have and be discriminate against in that way . if that be the position in normal time , unfortunately the time we live in be bad than that because of the international situation . I will not go into detail , because the matter will be subject to the court in due course , but an individual be arrest about 10 day ago for a series of attack , over a period of a month or so , on mosque and Muslim - own business in west London . I have visit the major local mosque in my constituency , in White City and Shepherd ' s Bush , and I be pleased to say that they have not be victim , but Acton mosque and other mosque in the area have suffer repeat and regular attack to their premise . in addition — this be of particular concern to I — the palestinian mission be attack on a number of occasion . death threat be issue and there be attack on property own by the mission staff . I be very proud to have the palestinian mission in Hammersmith , but there be an irony here that , because of the failure to recognise Palestine as a state , the mission lack diplomatic status . everybody refer to Dr Husam Zomlot , whom many of we know as the fantastic representative of Palestine in the UK , as " the ambassador " , and to the mission as " the embassy " , but it have be bring home to I very significantly that that be not the case . I have write several time to the commander responsible for diplomatic protection , ask that diplomatic protection be grant to the mission , particularly at this difficult time and particularly when it have suffer a series — not one , but a series — of criminal damage attack . I have not have a response to those letter . I know that my right hon . friend the shadow Home Secretary and the shadow Foreign Secretary have also write to their counterpart raise those concern , so they have be raise at the most senior level . it be frankly outrageous , when tension be run so high and when any embassy of any other country would receive full diplomatic protection , that that be not be grant . the palestinian mission represent all Palestinians irrespective of religion , but there be undoubtedly an Islamophobic element in the flavour of the attack that have take place . I have say that the enemy here be complacency . we must take Islamophobia seriously . we must at all time be aware that its impact on our community be significant in people ' s everyday life . that be equally true of anti - semitism and other form of hatred base on race , religion and other protect characteristic ; it be an insidious and a grow part of our society , but it be disproportionately affect muslim community . even in the most liberal and tolerant part of our community , that be a feature that we must resist . I hope that the Minister respond to this debate not just with warm word but with action , funding and a real determination to take Islamophobia seriously , because it be a constant and ever - present threat within many of our community . order . I be not go to put a time limit on speech , but , look at the clock and give that 10 colleague wish to speak in addition to the Front Benchers , I think it would be helpful and a courtesy to other if speech be confine to around eight minute , bear in mind that there be another debate to follow this one . it be a real pleasure to speak in this debate . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I speak in this debate from a number of different perspective , but before I commence I want to pay tribute to the Backbench Business Committee for allow this debate to take place . from 2019 to 2020 , I be the United Kingdom Prime Minister ' s special envoy for international freedom of religion or belief for all . I advocate and engage with people from all across Parliament in an inclusive manner to ensure that the UK stand by and stand up for international freedom of religion or belief for all . that mean take forward the Bishop of Truro ' s report as a top priority for the Foreign Office and the Prime Minister at that time . that report mean the UK ensure that we stand up for international freedom of religion and belief for all faith . during my time in office , work with the United States , we set up a 27 - member international alliance of state work together to advance international freedom of religion or belief for all . we then sign off on the UK host an international summit on international freedom of religion or belief . during covid - 19 , we see the real challenge of people around the world be target for their faith or belief . there be a real increase in antisemitism , in Islamophobia and in anti - christian hatred , and we see that across the board . I refer to that in the Westminster Hall debate when I step down from that role in 2020 . have advocate , as a former UK special envoy , for international freedom of religion or belief all around the world be a top priority of the United Kingdom Government , for other country around the world do the right thing and for ensure that people be treat fairly and equally , I then have to ask myself what the situation be in the UK regard intolerance and hatred towards faith community across the board . this debate be about Islamophobia , which some term anti - muslim hatred . tell MAMA , an organisation fund by the Government , say that its late figure demonstrate a sevenfold increase in incident of anti - muslim hatred and Islamophobia . accord to independent Home Office figure on the faith community that receive the large amount of hate , in 2022 - 23 , 44 % of incident be against the muslim community , and 19 % be against the jewish community . in 2020 - 21 , 45 % of incident be against the muslim community , and 22 % be against the jewish community . in 2019 - 20 , 50 % of incident of faith - base hate and intolerance be against the muslim community , and 19 % be against the jewish community . year after year , those two faith community have experience the large amount of hate and intolerance . that be unacceptable . accord to the Community Security Trust , intolerance , hatred and antisemitism against the jewish community be exceptionally high . that be unacceptable . policymaker and government must act to challenge intolerance and hate against all faith community in a fair and inclusive manner . that be why , at Prime Minister ' s question last week , I ask the Prime Minister about the unacceptable rise in intolerance and hate against two faith community . in the autumn statement , the Government announce £ 7 million in funding to tackle antisemitism , and they be absolutely right to do that . they also provide £ 3 million in October after the horrific , barbaric terrorist act in Israel , carry out by the terrorist organisation Hamas . the impact of that on antisemitism in the UK be shocking , and the Government ' s response be right and proper . I hope the Minister can answer my question , because the Prime Minister have not , nor have he speak to I since I raise it with he : why be there no funding to tackle anti - muslim hatred in the autumn statement ? I speak to the Prime Minister in his office during the leadership contest about engage with the muslim community in an inclusive manner across the board , know the different challenge . he say that he be committed to that , and that we would work together on it . I be wait to see the Prime Minister to this day . I have be a Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office Minister , an envoy and an MP ; when I give my word , I honour it . if someone can not honour their word , they should not give it , in any area of life . the hon . member for Bradford West ( Naz Shah ) raise an interesting point about the question I ask the Prime Minister : why do the Government not have an independent adviser on Islamophobia ? why have that role be leave vacant for more than a year ? a 2019 Guardian article that I have here report that , in one of her last act as Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) appoint John Mann to the Government post of independent adviser on antisemitism . as a former british envoy for religious freedom , I work with he in the other place . he do a terrific job . my right hon . Friend also appoint Qari Asim as the independent adviser on Islamophobia . he be in office for one year . he tell I that he be never give any term of reference by the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . he be remove from office in 2022 , and there have be no action to appoint another independent adviser . I pay tribute to our former adviser on Islamophobia . I have here a document that read : " faith leader write a prayer for Holocaust Memorial Day 2020 " . the faith leader be his grace the Archbishop of Canterbury , the Chief Rabbi and Imam Qari Asim . he be good enough to write that prayer and to work with faith leader , and we must acknowledge his work . there may have be a difference in policy with the Government , but an independent adviser should advise independently . the hon . Member be make an interesting point . do he accept that the yardstick apply to thing that Muslims say be different ? Islamophobia have become an acceptable , respectable form of racism across society , and it have be embolden by people who do not challenge it . be it not true that Qari Asim be measure with a different yardstick ? Qari Asim work with the Archbishop of Canterbury , the Chief Rabbi and all faith leader , and he do a terrific job in that regard . when we be deal with independent adviser , we must respect their advice . they look at thing from a faith perspective and they may sometimes express disagreement , but that be the role of an independent adviser . when the Government want to remove someone from office , there be something call courtesy and decency . I have here the letter sack Qari Asim , and it be not even sign by a Minister . it just say , " you ' re no long require , because your view be not compliant with freedom of expression . " I think the whole thing about freedom of expression and respect be difference of opinion ; freedom of expression mean that people can engage in peaceful protest when they do not agree with a certain course of action . the Government need to look at that carefully . I ask the Minister to answer the question that the Prime Minister do not : why have the Government not appoint an independent adviser on Islamophobia ? will they appoint one so that we have parity with the independent adviser on antisemitism ? when will that decision be make ? the hon . Member be make an excellent speech on this important subject . he speak about Qari Asim , an excellent imam , whom I know . should our conclusion not be that the Government never have any intention of do anything with he ? I have be a Member of Parliament for 13 year , and I resign from Government when Asia Bibi , a christian mother of five , be not give sanctuary in the UK as she should have be . our Government do not offer it . I be the british trade envoy to Pakistan and I advocate for justice for she there , which she get , but she need a country to step up and take she in . Canada do ; we do not , and I resign from the government because we do not do the right thing . I come from a muslim background ; my father and grandfather be imam . it be the right thing to do to stand up for someone be persecute . the hon . member for Manchester , Gorton ( Afzal Khan ) ask whether the Government really intend for Qari Asim to do some work . for 13 year I have try to engage with the Government , and with the Prime Minister and the Cabinet , who make the decision . the Prime Minister say that it be about action , not word . he need to explain why action have not be take ; otherwise , people may infer , as the hon . Member say , that the Prime Minister be not genuinely engage on this matter , nor do he want to engage , because what he say be not follow by substance . if the Government be commit to engage with the independent adviser Qari Asim , why do they not give he term of reference for two year ? I pay tribute to his work and to that of John Mann in the other place , who do a terrific job on antisemitism . Ours be a great country because we have people from all faith and background come together to make it so , and contribute at every level . my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Paul Bristow ) do a fantastic job champion his constituent and engage with the muslim community . he highlight their economic contribution of more than £ 31 billion to our way of life — be that right ? yes . I thank my hon . friend for clarify that point . we have people like Mo Ali in cricket ; across the board , in enterprise and sport , Muslims contribute at every level . our population in the UK be around 4 million , or 6 % of the total population . have a strong , cohesive society be not just morally right ; it be in our national security interest . when we have a government favour one faith community and not another , it lead to division and divisiveness , which we do not want . the Minister may want to look at the Prime Minister ' s Twitter page , which list an Eid event on 3 May and an engagement on Eid Mubarak with the muslim community . there be nothing else on the Prime Minister ' s page about tackle anti - muslim hatred , but there be 21 mention of tackle antisemitism , even though antisemitism and Islamophobia be both unacceptable . if someone look at the Government ' s action from the outside , they will see that there be no independent adviser for anti - muslim hatred and no comparable funding to tackle it , which create negative perception of the Prime Minister and his Ministers . in the autumn statement , the Treasury give £ 7 million to deal with antisemitism . do the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities ask for money from the Treasury to deal with anti - muslim hatred ? if the Department do not ask for money , I do not think we can not blame the Chancellor , so the Department have to answer the question . I have another question for the Minister , and I hope the Prime Minister will read it in Hansard . the Prime Minister say that the Government have give Tell MAMA £ 6 million since its inception in 2012 to deal with anti - muslim hatred . we have see the stat that show that such incident be increase and increase . the Minister may say that the Government ' s funding be for protect place of worship — I think that be the answer give by the Treasury . in the Home Office statistic , there be a category for protect place of worship , which cover mosque , temple , gurdwara and other across the board , but there be no datum on how much money have be give . the Government say , " up to x amount be available . " okay , but how much of it have actually be give ? I will end with this . as a former Foreign Office Minister , I can tell the House that people across the world look around and say , " the UK advocate for international freedom of religion or belief for all " — we get a lot do during my time in office , work with the US on get member of the Baha ' I community release from the Houthis in Yemen , and help people in Uzbekistan who have be persecute for their faith — " but how do you address anti - muslim hatred in the UK , with the resource and structure that you use to deal with other form of hatred ? " I think the Government will find it a real challenge to answer that . we see the foreign policy issue in place such as the middle east . People say , " your perspective on how international law be apply in the middle east may explain how you be deal with the situation back home with regard to faith community and anti - muslim hatred . " when we ask people to apply international law in Ukraine , they will probably ask we to apply international law when it come to the middle east . that be why we have the whole dilemma in UK foreign policy about get more people from the non - align state to join we . they want a consistent approach across the board internationally . back home in the UK , we need to make sure that we treat all faith community fairly and equally , with the same resource and structure . at the moment , I be not see that in engagement with the muslim community . rise — order . let I try again . if every colleague take 15 minute , the follow debate will have to be cancel . I urge a self - deny ordinance . as I have raise in this House multiple time , I have receive Islamophobic abuse since be elect . for example , just this week I post on social medium a video of my comment about migrant survivor of domestic abuse during the debate on the Victims and Prisoners Bill . I will not read the bad response I receive , which contain swearing , but here be some of the other : " you be give a job in England UK to help England , all you care about be your own , feel free to leave at any point . what about all the immigrant rape our child you delude fool . " " ban all Muslim mps . they represent Muslims not the native . their Loyalty be to their own . " " this be not Islamabad ! " " Deport . " " you be a traitor and will be prosecute in 2028 . " " if England doesn ' t kick you and every other ungrateful foreign beggar out very soon there will be no England anymore . " " you ' ll be much happy in a muslim country Begum . " " People like you should be expel from parliament . the only people you represent be foreign national . " " that ' s the problem with Islam . woman be treat as second class by the man . you need to recognise the truth about this primitive religion . " " Muslims don ' t have beautiful clothe , only ugly headscarf ! there be no invention , only destruction ! " I want to make it clear to the House that those be just example of the regular , almost daily abuse that I have have to learn to cope with , and they be from just my most recent social medium post . I also receive threat online , via voicemail and email , and by letter . the situation be escalate , exacerbate by those try to capitalise on current event by spread their hate and division , and I now face a heightened and very serious risk to my safety . it be important to recognise that what I be experience as the first hijab - wear MP reflect a grow current within society . the data show that Muslims be the large target of religiously motivated hate crime . follow the 7 October Hamas attack , which result in around 1 , 200 israeli death , include those of civilian and child , and the subsequent israeli military assault , which have kill more than 20 , 000 Palestinians , include civilian and child , hate crime against both Jews and Muslims have rise dramatically in Europe . in the UK , tell MAMA have report a 600 % increase in attack on Muslims , include attack and hostility against individual and mosque , with child target at school , death threat and physical attack . islamophobic hate crime not only affect the victim but send reverberation through community , as they reinforce establish pattern of bias , prejudice and discrimination . Islam and Muslims have increasingly be see as culturally dangerous and threaten to the british way of life . we be constantly scapegoate and misrepresent , and label both deviant and evil . be call a supporter of terrorism or a terrorist , or be hold responsible as a group for terrorism , be a common theme . the reality be that Islamophobia be widespread and relate to whole structure of discrimination . the socioeconomic discrimination and inequality that Muslims face make we the most economically disadvantaged faith group in the UK . at the same time , Muslims face institutional discrimination . for some time it have be widely understand , include by the United Nations , that approach to counter - terrorism be model on Islamophobic stereotype , policy and political structure , but government document leak in November 2023 reveal that official have draw up controversial proposal to broaden the definition of extremism even far , to include organisation such as the Muslim Council of Britain — yet this Government will not even recognise Islamophobia . when Muslims be the target of hate , the Government be silent . they allow social medium to perpetuate narrative of terrorism about Muslims , while fail to call out those who misrepresent and generalise about Muslims . More than that , they recklessly stoke the hate by peddle their so - call culture war against the british people , pander to a culture that tell people it be acceptable to discriminate against , to persecute and to abuse Muslims . across Europe , the situation be alarming , with the threat of the far right on the rise , include the re - emergence of far - right party and politician such as Geert Wilders . whether in India , France , China or Iran , I believe it should be up to woman to choose what they wear . no state and no man should have the right to overrule that . this September mark a year since the murder of Mahsa Amini in Iran . when she be murder , the Prime Minister be right to describe the iranian regime ' s attack on woman protest for their right to not wear the hijab as abhorrent , but the Government be silent about the outlawing of muslim woman ' s right to wear the abaya in France . and where be the Government ' s outrage at the fact that government office across Europe can now ban employee from wear religious symbol such as headscarf in the interest of so - call neutrality , after a court be ask to rule on the case of a muslim employee in Belgium who be tell that she could not wear a headscarf at work ? I be concern and alarm by that , because it could exacerbate the marginalisation of Muslims at a time when Islamophobia be already on the rise . the constituency that I represent have a long and proud history of migration and anti - racism , whether that be our jewish community and ally oppose fascist at the battle of Cable Street in 1936 or our bangladeshi community lead the anti - fascist mobilisation in 1978 after the murder of Altab Ali . we be one of the most culturally diverse area in the UK , and we be damn proud of it . we will always stand together , multiracial , of all faith and none , against division and intolerance . I welcome the debate on behalf of the 3 million Muslims in the United Kingdom and the significant number who be my constituent in Hendon . since 7 October , there have be many incident of racism follow the terrorist attack in Israel . subsequently , the number of antisemitic incident have rise to more than 1 , 009 ; the same would probably be true of attack within the muslim community . I receive regular report from the Metropolitan police about hate crime take place in the borough of Barnet , and I be extremely concerned to read that many be link to the current conflict in Israel and Gaza . on Brent Street in Hendon , there be a fast food restaurant call Lahore , which a constituent tell I have be vandalise ; he attribute the attack to Islamophobia . I do not know whether that be true , but I do know that a jewish restaurant in Golders Green be also attack , and the police refuse to categorise that incident as antisemitic . regardless of who attack either of they or why , the business owner be leave with a financial bill as a result of those extremist action . I believe that Islamophobia exist in this country , as indeed do antisemitism , but I do not accept that it be accept and embed in the United Kingdom ' s society . the debate have be posit as a conflict between one group of people in the United Kingdom and those who hold a different religion . that appear to frame the discussion as an otherness of those who be islamic , but I do not see that , particularly not in my constituency . in fact , there be significant share concern between my different community . for example , Muslims and Jews both share belief around halal and shechita , and issue with the coroner service — I have campaign long and hard on seek a death certificate within 24 hour . the promotion of faith school be important to both community , as be single - sex space in place such as hospital . People in the United Kingdom sometimes do denigrate Muslims because they perceive they as a homogenous entity , but that be far from the truth . it be interesting that no one have so far raise the great schism in Islam : that of the Sunni and Shi ' a divide . put simply , the contention centre on the succession of the Prophet Muhammad and whether his grandson or one of his follower should be consider to be next in the line of succession . that have be the cause of conflict for hundred of year and be the basis of proxy conflict happen right now in Yemen , Lebanon , Syria and other part of Africa . as a non - Muslim , it be not for I to say how the line of succession should occur or to dictate whether one strand of Islam be more legitimate than another , but it be incumbent on I to acknowledge the difference and , as a democratically elect representative , to give voice to the minority and defend their right to exist . in recent year , the divide have be attribute as a justification for sectarian violence . in Iraq , Daesh commit atrocity against Yazidi man and woman and use extremist ideology to justify their crime by call their victim devil worshipper . in Syria , the Druze community have face persistent attack , which have lead to oppose clan come together in a common cause against their syrian attacker . the conflict in Syria have also feed into existential fear among Lebanon ' s Druze community , in part due to attack on the syrian Jews and Alawites , who be denounce as non - Muslims and target for extreme violence . we have hear today about Muslims suffer discrimination and violence in Bosnia , Myanmar and China . those be all example of islamic atrocity overseas . however , the murder in 2016 of Asad Shah in Scotland expose not just Islamophobia but a downright hatred of Ahmadi Muslims here in the United Kingdom . the murderer , a Sunni Muslim , have drive from Bradford with the intent of confront Mr Shah because he be an open adherent of the Ahmadiyya branch of Islam , which believe that the Prophet Mohammed be not the final muslim prophet . the judge say that Mr Shah be regard by those who know he as " a peaceful and peace - love … family man who go out of his way to show respect for those of any faith . " she say that his murder be " an appalling display of merciless violence " , and tell the murderer that he be responsible for the " barbaric , premeditated and wholly unjustified killing of a much - love man who be a pillar of the local community . " as have be mention about other murder , Mr Shah , too , be repeatedly stab and have his face stamp on . the Muslim Council of Britain put out a statement after the murder of Mr Shah , which state that it affirm " the right of Ahmadis to their freedom of belief " and reject attack upon they . but the MCB state that its theological position be " fundamentally opposed " to the Ahmadi community , and that no Muslim " should be force to class Ahmadis as Muslims if they do not wish to do so " . I think that would be anathema to many hon . member in the Chamber , and particularly those who advocate self - identification in other sphere of life . be it not right for the individual to decide what religion they identify with , and for that person to be allow a view , even if it be not share by other ? as be attribute to Voltaire , " I may not agree with what you say , but I defend … your right to say it . " article 18 of the universal declaration of human right state : " everyone have the right to freedom of thought , conscience and religion ; this right include freedom to change his religion or belief , and freedom , either alone or in community with other and in public or private , to manifest his religion or belief in teaching , practice , worship and observance . " that be where I see a difference between british Muslims and those from around the world . the clue be in the name — british . unlike in some culture , the issue of british value supersede other prejudice . our shared belief in common value surround decency , fair play , respect for the law and free speech be also share by british Muslims . when I visit faith school in my constituency , such as Barnet Hill Academy in west Hendon , I see those value be instill in the child alongside their muslim faith . all of we must ensure that that continue . the United Kingdom can lead by example . in July 2021 , the UN express its deep concern about the lack of attention to the serious human right violation perpetrate against the Ahmadiyya muslim community around the world and call on the international community to step up effort to bring an end to the ongoing persecution of Ahmadi Muslims . that have include discriminatory legislative and policy framework ; the targeting of Ahmadi Muslims through exclusion , hate campaign and violence , include arbitrary arrest and detention , verbal and physical attack in the public sphere , and attack against their cultural site and place of worship . ahmadi woman be particularly affect as they face harassment and discrimination due to their distinctive traditional attire , which make they immediately recognisable , while Ahmadi child and youth be often deny admission to school and high educational institution because of their faith . they also constantly suffer intimidation and bullying , force they to interrupt or drop out of their study . report also indicate that Ahmadis be still portray in a negative light in school textbook , while ahmadiyya educational institution be often seize and administratively close by state authority . it be my belief that tackle Islamophobia be not restrict to non - Muslims and Muslims . I be grateful to the hon . member for give way and associate myself with his comment about ensure that we end all persecution of all muslim community , whether that be the Ahmadiyya community or the Shi ' a community . for declaration purpose , my family and I come from the lineage of the Prophet , sallallahu alaihi wasallam — peace be upon he . many in my family be of Shi ' a heritage and belief , and many be sunni . I be struggle to understand the idea here . we be talk about Islamophobia , but the debate have be take elsewhere . I do not think that that be the intention of the hon . member , who be make valid point about persecution , but do he not agree that the intersection of Muslim - upon - muslim hatred be not Islamophobia in the context of what this afternoon ' s debate be about ? I encourage he to speak to people — perhaps we could have a chat ; I would not mind a coffee — just to unpick some of that , because it do worry I . perhaps we should have a kahwa instead of a coffee . the hon . member hit on a really good point , but I see Islamophobia and antisemitism — I hope that I make this clear — as simply racism . there can still be inter - faith racism , where one sect say that another be not legitimate . that be still the denigration of a particular community . for I , that be still Islamophobia and racism , and it be unacceptable , but I be grateful to she for her comment , and for accept the premise of my argument . to conclude , if Islamophobia , racism or whatever we want to call it be to be address , all Muslims must be prepare to demonstrate a tolerance not only of other faith but of their own . it be only then , through lead by example , that we can attack and address other cause of Islamophobia , which I have acknowledge exist , in this country as well as abroad , and take action against people who be denigrate other . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for propose today ' s important debate , and all my fellow member of the APPG on british Muslims for their work . I also thank somebody from the other place : Baroness Sayeeda Warsi , the treasurer of the APPG , for her constant work , and for hold up a mirror to we all , but particularly to her own party , and for the courage and strength that she show in do that . it be a privilege to listen to and take part in this emotive , powerful and timely debate . Islamophobia be a scourge on society . it be on all of we to tackle it , call it out , and educate . it be something close to my heart , and I declare my interest as the co - chair of the APPG on british Muslims . I firmly believe that it should not be leave to british Muslims to tackle Islamophobia in this country . it be on all of we to build a fair , inclusive society , which we can all benefit from , and to highlight the huge contribution that Muslims make to our country . I see those contribution in my constituency every single day , through inspirational charity work , public service and business . if anyone want to see a great representation of how diversity be strength , I encourage people to look at the video of Luton Town football club fan leave Kenilworth Road in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) , on news of our promotion to the premier league after the team ' s historic win , take they to Wembley . they enter Bury Park to the sound of dhol drum , irish band and people of all faith and none , and of all background and age , celebrate together as one . multiculturalism be alive and kick in town such as Luton . it be a strength to be the town of many voice that we be . I have be fortunate to meet fantastic people from across the country live their faith through action , and I learn something new with every meeting . when I visit the British Muslim Heritage Centre in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Manchester , Gorton ( Afzal Khan ) , I learn that an invention by Muslims be the thing that get I go and power throughout the day : coffee , which be possibly the great invention , especially for any parent or shift worker . I would like to spend more time talk about the great work be do in Luton North by our muslim community , whether it be through organisation such as Inspire Eid , Discover Islam , Curry Kitchen and Faiths United , or internationally through Islamic Relief and the Muslim Council of Britain . unfortunately , hate crime be so rife that less time be now afford to the wonderful contribution of muslim community in our country . instead , we have to spend so much time talk about the horrific impact of Islamophobia , as well as other form of discrimination . it come as no surprise to anyone that racist do not stay in their lane . hatred rear its ugly head in the form of misogyny , homophobia , antisemitism , anti - black hatred as well as anti - disabled discrimination . in many instance , a perpetrator will not just limit their hatred to one protect characteristic . often the victim will be pick out for more than one issue , face a barrage of hatred for multiple part of who they be . that be especially true for muslim woman , black Muslims and disabled Muslims . we have hear horrific example of that from my hon . friend the Member for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) , who be a dear friend , just for do her job . accord to statistic from the Home Office , hate crime target Muslims rise by 25 % last year , make Muslims the most targeted religious group . almost half of religious hate crime be direct towards Muslims , and with the atrocity take place in the middle east we be see an even more horrific rise in Islamophobia . tell MAMA report an increase in recent incident of Islamophobia in the UK of over 300 % . that be concern enough on its own , but it be only the tip of the iceberg , as the level of under - reporting and misreporting be likely to be considerable . that be why we desperately need the Government to adopt the cross - party definition of Islamophobia . that would be just a start in tackle the problem head on . how can the Government begin to tackle Islamophobia if they refuse to define what it be ? for year , we have hear that the Government would be look into that . my hon . friend the Member for Manchester , Gorton ( Afzal Khan ) have push hard on it , as have other , yet we have hear nothing but silence — just more hold answer and delay as the incidence of Islamophobia continue to rise . that simply be not good enough , so will the Minister give assurance that an agree definition of Islamophobia will be come from the Government , and explain the real reason for the delay ? I would also be grateful if she confirm that the additional funding announce by the Chancellor in the autumn statement rightly to tackle the rise in antisemitism , as the hon . member for Gillingham and Rainham ( Rehman Chishti ) raise , will be match , or at least that the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities will fight for that , to tackle Islamophobia at the same rate ? while we wait , more people will be subject to abuse , intimidation and violence without a standard that institution and individual be hold to , and be accountable for . More than 15 , 746 attack have be commit against Muslims since 2017 . how many more must happen ? how much more misery must be inflict before the Government act ? as my hon . friend the Member for Bradford West ( Naz Shah ) , an ardent campaigner against Islamophobia , have call for many time , when will the long - promise adviser on Islamophobia be announce and , importantly , work with ? let I turn to the intersectional aspect of Islamophobia , which be incredibly important , particularly for young generation . we know the horrific impact and the rise in Islamophobic attack follow the description that the former Prime Minister and former Member for Uxbridge give of veiled woman as " letterboxe " . research from Tell MAMA show that Islamophobic incident rise a shocking 375 % the week after those comment from someone who clearly should have know well but sadly do not . constituent in Luton North contact I to share their anger and concern , which I share , about the impact of the slur against pakistani man make by the former Home Secretary — or should I refer to she as another contender for the Tory leadership ? those slur be found not in evidence , but in fear - monger and Islamophobia . it be beholden on all of we in this place and in position of power to lead by example , and to continue to learn , educate ourselves and challenge our own prejudice . be anti - racist be something to consistently strive for . many have a lot to learn still , especially when it come to intersectionality and Islamophobia . Shockat Patel , a board member of Muslim Engagement and Development , report : " lot of woman say they be fearful of go out , just because of the fact they be wear a headscarf . for those that wear a niqab they find it even more difficult because they know , almost certainly , that they be go to get verbal abuse . " the visibility of muslim woman increase the chance of their be target for hatred . they experience the double whammy of misogyny and racism , often compound when class be also factor in . that discrimination create barrier to talented , compassionate and experience muslim woman in many walk of life , include in the workplace , access service — particularly important for Muslims with disability — representation in the medium and , sadly , in politic , and in other form of public life . we be all the bad off because we be miss out on the good and widest pool of talent . representation matter , not just in politic but in every walk of life . the constant use of culture war to stoke division and hatred by those in power , who should know well , be a dead end . it be detrimental to we all , especially those of we who want a fair , safe and more inclusive society . on the flipside , we can also see positive step be take internationally , lead to progress . this year , the United Nations hold the first - ever International Day to Combat Islamophobia on 15 March 2023 . that be after a resolution back by 60 muslim member state be pass by the UN General Assembly . the UN call on all UN member state to mark the day by recognise Islamophobia and work to combat it . can the Minister tell we whether that be mark and recognise by the UK Government ? if not , do they plan to do so next year ? the point I want to end on be that we can do well than this . if we be to build a safe , fair and inclusive country for all , we must do well , and that start with the leadership of this country , and in particular the leadership of the Conservative Government , who have all too often be find want on the challenge of Islamophobia . despite what some politician and medium outlet describe as " wake issue " , Islamophobia affect entire community — our village , town and city across the country and internationally . it be a poison that know no boundary . we know that the world be an incredibly unstable and volatile place , especially for people of faith . the example of state - sanction Islamophobia that we see in Xinjiang against the Uyghurs be an affront to humanity . the report of torture , imprisonment , killing and denial of people ' s religion breach multiple human right law , and it be genuinely welcome that the House be unite in the condemnation of those atrocity . however , many resident in my constituency have contact I , and I share their condemnation of senior member of the Netanyahu Government speak about " flatten Gaza " or enact " Gaza ' s Nakba " . that be compound by other dehumanising language , with Israel ' s President claim that there be no innocent civilian in Gaza . when it come to genocide , we look back at history . we even stand in this Chamber , and we utter the word , " never again " , yet here we be , stare at it from afar , know that this tragedy be now the present for the Uyghurs and a real threat for the palestinian people . if we be to avoid the further ethnic cleansing of Palestinians , I urge the Minister to speak directly to their colleague in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to ensure that the UK back the United Nations ' unprecedented call to invoke article 99 of the UN charter for a ceasefire to protect civilian population . we must ensure that we work as an international community and strain every sinew in the pursuit of peace , an urgent last ceasefire between Hamas and Israel , an end to the loss of innocent life and the freeing of hostage to ensure that the current atrocity be endure be no one else ' s future . I be delighted to follow the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) . I put on record my thank to the hon . member for Bradford West ( Naz Shah ) and for Peterborough ( Paul Bristow ) for secure this important debate . we have perhaps become accustomed in this place to debate Islamophobia abroad . we have become accustomed to talk about the Uyghur Muslims and Srebrenica , which be mention early . my concern , however , be that we have become negligent and too often overlook what be happen at home . perhaps the time have come to look inward . as my party ' s equality spokesperson , I be increasingly concern by the Islamophobia we be see across the country and by the effect on my own community in Edinburgh West as their constituency MP . in Edinburgh West , we have a significant and vibrant muslim community . we have a mosque in the Blackhall area , with which I be in regular contact . we have open day and surgery . however , like many community across the country , there be an underlying tension that be not acceptable . a 2021 report from the Scottish Parliament cross - party group on tackle Islamophobia with Newcastle University show that more than 80 % of Muslims in Scotland who respond to the survey say that a family member have experience Islamophobia . some 78 % of those same people think it be get bad . some 75 % of Muslims say that Islamophobia be a regular or everyday issue in scottish society . as we have hear , Islamophobia be often gendere , with woman be target for wear a hijab or niqab . for too long , we have see Islamophobia as a problem that affect other place and other country . as I say , it be time we look close to home . yes , we must question the Government , but we all must also question ourselves . this debate come at a crucial point in our cultural and social history in this country , as the horror of the war in Israel and Gaza be far heighten those tension that I have mention . it be create fear in muslim and jewish community across the country . in a recent meeting with Tell MAMA and a representative of the Community Security Trust , both group express their concern about the damage be do to the relationship between their community . they also outline their fear about the abuse be suffer — significantly online but also in person . at that point , almost 300 Islamophobic incident have be report in the first 12 day after 7 October , which be a sixfold increase on the same period last year . Muslims be face abuse and dehumanising slur across society . that be not just unacceptable for Muslims to face ; it be unacceptable for anyone in our society . I believe that we be all responsible for what happen , each and every one of we . I thank the hon . member for share with we all the statistic from Scotland . may I say how delighted I be to learn that every single political party in Scotland have accept the definition , include the Scottish Conservative party ? do she not agree that now it be time that this Parliament take through the motion with the support of all party ? the hon . member be absolutely right . it be time that not just all the scottish party but that all of we accept the definition , take it through Parliament and make sure that it be recognise . I would not want to patronise the muslim community , the jewish community or any other community in this country by tell they that I understand what it be like to suffer the hatred that they suffer on a daily basis , but I like to think that I be aware of it , and I will do everything I can to support they in fight it , because every community should feel safe . that be important to I as an individual . I think it be the hon . member for Bradford West who say the issue be not about give priority to any community ; it be about equality for all community , and ensure that every community feel safe and secure . I ask the House to consider that . if any Member feel insecure , they should think about how it can be address . if we feel secure — if we feel that we have never be the subject of hatred , or hatred towards our community — we should think , " what can we do to ensure that other community and other individual feel the same way ? " I want briefly to raise a few point about my constituency . I have a multicultural constituency . it have be a migrant community for more than a hundred year , and there be a sizeable muslim community . in fact , I help establish the first mosque — the islamic centre in the centre of Hayes — 30 year ago . we rub together pretty well . at the weekend , we have an open day at the islamic centre to talk about how the different religion work together . there be a particular discussion about the role of Jesus Christ , and I think it be interesting and fascinating to hear people ' s view . nevertheless , we do have problem . before 7 October , we have an arson attack on the muslim woman ' s centre in Yeading Lane in Hayes . for the woman , the tragedy of it be that the arsonist burn through the room where the holy Koran be store . the House can imagine the distress cause . I previously raise this issue with a Minister on the Floor of the House , and be give an assurance that there would be support . at the moment , we be seek a meeting with civil servant to go through the detail ; any help the Minister could provide in arrange that meeting would be really helpful , because it be quite press . as the insurance money hopefully come through to repair the building , we need the security put in place fairly rapidly . political party have to be straight with one another on this issue . with regard to the Conservative party , Baroness Warsi have play an exceptional role — a heroic role . I can not understand why the Human Rights Council do not carry out an investigation into the Conservative party when Baroness Warsi and other produce their report about the Islamophobia within that party , and I think it reflect badly on the HRC . I normally support the HRC — in fact , I have be on picket line in support of its staff when there be staff cut — but I think it need to examine its behaviour that regard . turn to the Labour party , we have to be straight — I know that at the moment in the Labour party , be straight can sometimes be dangerous . I want to raise a number of point . first , the Labour Muslim Network , which be found a number of year ago , do an excellent job in research and expose Islamophobia within our own party . we need to listen to that . I can not understand how three year on , the Labour Muslim Network be try to establish itself as a formal affiliate to the Labour party , but still have not be allow to affiliate . secondly , it be accurately report that in my local area , for example , Ali Milani — who be one of the founder of the Labour Muslim Network , and be an excellent candidate for Uxbridge in the general election — be warn off stand again in the by - election . it be make clear that he would not be allow to stand , which be unacceptable . I put on record that any party that allow the deselection of my hon . friend the Member for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) be not protect the muslim community in the way I would expect it to . I want to send that message . I have raise these issue in private — I have write to the leader of the Labour party — and the reason I be now raise they in public be that I have not have a sufficiently positive response that address those issue . the final point I want to make with regard to the Labour party be this : why be it that when someone be accuse of Islamophobia and they apologise , disciplinary action be then end and there be no issue with regard to the Whip or whatever , but in a number of instance where a person have be accuse of antisemitism , the Whip be withdraw and they spend month await any form of investigatory process ? in his inquiry into the Labour party , Martin Forde address the issue of a potential hierarchy of racism within our party , and I be afraid that the way in which we treat individual reinforce that concern . we all condemn antisemitism and Islamophobia , but we have to treat all form of racism with equivalence , as well as the individual against whom allegation have be make . I think we have a job of work in our own political party to ensure that we tackle Islamophobia effectively , in a way that will make we — particularly the Labour party — the anti - racist party that we have always want to be , and an example to other political party . finally , I want to emphasise the point that the hon . member for Peterborough ( Paul Bristow ) make : at every meeting I have in my constituency with regard to the muslim community , I be so proud of the way that it that have come forward in a migrant community over the past 50 to 70 year and now play such a significant role in my constituency , but also nationally . whenever there be a problem — whenever there be an issue that I need support on and I put the call out — it be the islamic centre and the mosque that come forward and provide the resource . in fact , the islamic centre in Hayes be visit by the Prince and Princess of Wales only a few month ago , just to thank the people there for the work they have do in raise fund for Afghanistan and elsewhere . I put on record my thank to the muslim community and my gratitude for all the work they do , and my pride in be able to represent the muslim community in my constituency . Islamophobia be an insidious kind of racism that be prevalent not just in british society but globally . across the world , Islamophobia look like the continue torture in concentration camp of Uyghur Muslims in China , the merciless killing of 51 worshipper in New Zealand , and the ongoing persecution of Rohingya Muslims at the hand of Myanmar ' s brutal regime . I commend the UN for designate 15 March as the International Day to Combat Islamophobia , and thank the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation for its effort . recognise the existence of Islamophobia and how it plague society be vital if we be to begin to tackle it . Canada and the European Commission have task key individual with combat Islamophobia , and to mark Islamophobia Awareness Month , the US have announce that it will develop a national strategy to counter Islamophobia . regrettably , we do not have the same leadership domestically , despite Islamophobia damage public and political life in Britain . Most victim of religious hate crime in the UK be Muslims , and in October , Islamophobic incident be up by 600 % . a recent report find that 35 % of british mosque experience a religiously motivate attack at least once a year . Islamophobia be not just hate crime : it permeate every aspect of a Muslim ' s life . Muslims be more likely to live in poverty , they be the UK ' s least like religious group , and most Muslims have experience religion - base discrimination in their everyday life . all of that make it hard for Muslims to live as equal member of british society . when I be first elect to this House , I swear my oath in English and Urdu — a language that Queen Victoria also proudly speak . I be then subject to a barrage of hate for dare to speak another language and for boldly express my Muslimness . there be a small , but increasingly vocal , minority in this country who hate the idea of a rich , pluralistic society that british Muslims contribute to . it be that minority that we all must stand up to , and to do so , we must have a clear , community - endorse definition of Islamophobia . in 2018 , follow extensive consultation with academic , expert and faith community , the all - party group on british Muslims formulate a definition of Islamophobia . in the year since , every political party except the Conservatives have adopt that definition , alongside council , elect Mayors , trade union , academic and community group across the country . however , there be one blocker to UK - wide adoption of a formal definition of Islamophobia : the Tory Government . they reject the expert definition put forward by the APPG , claim that it be inconsistent with the Equality Act 2010 . to adopt that definition of Islamophobia at Government level would not be legally binding — it would be intend to serve as a workable measure for action against Islamophobia . no legislative change be be propose , so the Equality Act would not be undermine . in reality , most act that be deem Islamophobic under the APPG ' s definition would also be consider religious discrimination under the Equality Act . the APPG ' s definition and the Equality Act complement each other — one do not challenge the other . give that the Government ' s argument against that definition do not stand up , and consider that they have abandon all plan to develop their own definition , can the Minister outline why the Government still think that the APPG ' s definition of Islamophobia breach the Equality Act if it be not legally binding ? I imagine that this Government be reluctant to adopt any definition of Islamophobia , because the long we do not have one , the long the conservative party can not be in breach of it for fail to deal with the widespread Islamophobia within its own rank . in the local election early this year , three conservative councillor be re - elect despite have previously be suspend for alleged Islamophobia and racism , with no information provide on why they be readmitte to the party and deem fit for public office . if we be to begin to tackle Islamophobia in british society , we need strong leadership and a commitment from the very top to root out this dangerous hate . other nation across the world be wake up to the threat that Islamophobia pose and be do something about it , but not the UK . the long the Tories stay in Government , the long we will have no leadership and no action on Islamophobia . my constituent and british Muslims across the country deserve well . I be pleased to be able to speak in today ' s debate , which be so brilliantly open by my good and hon . friend the Member for Bradford West ( Naz Shah ) . as a Member of Parliament represent a significant muslim community — some 30 % of my constituency ' s population be muslim — I understand just how important tackle Islamophobia be , and I be grateful for this debate . we all in this place have a duty to ensure that the UK be a welcoming , tolerant place for all , irrespective of religion or belief . we must stand up to religious hatred in all its form . I be proud of the rich contribution that muslim community make to the United Kingdom , but , sadly , we have people who seek to sow division by spread racism and hatred . Islamophobia be far too prevalent in our society . follow consultation with academic , lawyer , and muslim organisation , the all - party parliamentary group on british Muslims define Islamophobia , say that it be " root in racism and be a type of racism that target expression of Muslimness or perceive Muslimness . " Labour be proud to adopt the all - party group ' s definition in 2019 . the Conservatives be the only major political party to continue to refuse to adopt that definition , even though the scottish Conservatives have do so . identify racism and know how to tackle it be of paramount importance . in 2022 - 23 , around 44 % of religious hate crime record by police be Islamophobic . Muslims have form the high proportion of victim of religiously motivate hate crime for each of the past five year , and we know that muslim woman often suffer great discrimination and form the majority of victim of hate crime as a result of be more easily identify as Muslim . as note by the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , the Community Security Trust and tell MAMA , rise tension in the middle east can lead to an increase in anti - muslim and antisemitic incident in the UK . we know that antisemitic and Islamophobic hate crime incident have both increase . tell MAMA report a sevenfold increase in anti - muslim incident between 7 and 29 October compare with the same period last year . we expect to see a robust response to all incident of hate associate with the conflict . there be no place in Britain for Islamophobia , just as there be no place for antisemitism . we must not allow these tragic event to divide our community . in Luton , we have a history of oppose those seek to sow division and spread racism . we recognise that our beautiful cultural fabric be make up of many voice , but we come together to speak as one town . that mean diversity be our strength . we know that understand each other be essential to create a harmonious society and help to tackle inaccurate fear use to underpin racist ideology . Luton Council of Faiths work to establish , maintain and celebrate mutual respect , friendship and tolerance in Luton , include through our Luton in Harmony initiative over the past decade . Luton Council of Faiths comprise representative from a wide range of religion , include Baha ' I , Christian , hindu , jewish , Muslim , Quaker and Sikh among other . open dialogue across our community be so important to break down any bias and prejudice . Luton have always be a welcome town , with muslim diaspora from across the world — whether that be from Europe , Asia or Africa . many excellent local community event have help to create this robust cohesion . during Ramadan , there be the Big Iftar in the town centre , where people from all our community come to break their fast together , as well as the Unity Iftar at Madinah mosque on Oak Road , which be host by its neighbour Luton Town Football Club . event such as these bring people together to understand the muslim faith . I be also proud that Luton Labour have develop and encourage many muslim member to get involve in democratic institution by stand and get elect as local councillor . I be pleased to say that Luton Labour group have not only a majority of woman councillor , but , within that , a majority of muslim woman councillor , and I be proud to campaign alongside they every week . but I recognise that , sadly , they have be target for abuse , which be simply unacceptable . I take this opportunity to give recognition to this year ' s civic mayor of Luton — my good friend Councillor Yaqub Hanif , who have be excellent at demonstrate that , to tackle division and discrimination , we must all focus on equality , inclusivity and tolerance . I finish by say once again how proud I be to represent Luton and our wonderfully diverse town . our muslim community be integral to our town ' s identity , and I be their ally and , in the strong possible term , against anyone who seek to spread Islamophobia . I ask the Minister again whether this Conservative Government will adopt the cross - party APPG ' s definition of Islamophobia , as the Labour party do in 2019 , and if not , why not . I express my gratitude to the Backbench Business Committee for provide this platform for a debate of such importance . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bradford West ( Naz Shah ) , the hon . member for Peterborough ( Paul Bristow ) and other on have secure it . once again , I rise to speak in this Chamber to address a pervasive issue that continue to affect our society deeply : the distressing rise of Islamophobia . this matter be significant not just to british Muslims , but to the very essence of what our country stand for . the muslim community , especially in my Slough constituency , make a huge and positive contribution to our economy and society . today , though , I be here to voice my concern and to challenge the Government ' s inaction and indifference towards Islamophobia . the statistic show the stark reality for many Muslims in Great Britain . an alarming 44 % of all religious hate crime last year target Muslims . that highlight the fact that a significant portion of our society endure persistent discrimination and fear due to their faith — an issue on which I have campaign tirelessly . such statistic , and the one provide by Tell MAMA and other respected organisation , should make we all very concerned , and they highlight the need for action . the current Israel - Hamas conflict , mark by a grave humanitarian crisis with more than 15 , 000 death , have tragically fuel a rise in both antisemitism and Islamophobia . the harrowing image of death and devastation broadcast globally underscore the profound indirect impact that such conflict have on societal attitude , exacerbate domestic prejudice and hate in the UK . this time of global distress should prompt a call for unity , not be a catalyst for further division and conflict . the world do not need more conflict , and we must urgently push for peace . the Conservative Government ' s hesitation to formally define Islamophobia , despite widespread call for they to do so , mark a significant failure . their reluctance hinder our collective effort to effectively confront and mitigate this hate crime . notably , the all - party parliamentary group on british Muslims , which I have serve as a vice - chair , have define Islamophobia as a " form of racism " target manifestation of " muslimness or perceive Muslimness " . that definition be crucial in understanding and tackle the multifaceted nature of Islamophobia , and I have raise this issue on previous occasion in various meeting . sikh have be target , taunt and even shoot dead , as in the US , simply because of the way they look , have be mistake for Muslims because of their turban and beard . a hate - fill killer in Arizona , for example , shoot to death a Sikh outside his petrol station . the attacker have reportedly declare that he want to " go out and shoot some towelhead " . this government ' s failure to recognise and adopt that definition , despite all the other major and mainstream political party have adopt it , imply that they be neglect the complexity of Islamophobia , leave its victim without the necessary protection and support . the Government ' s failure to define Islamophobia , couple with divisive rhetoric and policy , especially concern immigration and the invoking of culture war , have fuel an atmosphere in which Islamophobia and other form of racism have flourish . the Government ' s approach have be mark by language that alienate and vilify specific group , contribute to a climate of fear and misunderstanding . that be exemplified when the former Prime Minister , Boris Johnson , refer to woman wear a burqa as look like " bank robber " and " letterboxe " , a statement that not only demean a religious practice , but inflame anti - muslim sentiment . such racist remark , especially from a political leader , have a tangible impact , embolden prejudicial attitude against muslim community . they lead to a huge spike in hate crime against muslim woman , with some hate - consume individual throw egg and tomato at they . there be still no independent inquiry into Islamophobia in the conservative party , despite the then Prime Minister and then Chancellor promise it on national television . in my role as a Labour Member of Parliament and an elect representative of Slough , I be committed to oppose divisive tactic and to foster a Britain that thrive on its diversity . we must envisage a nation that unite in its varied cultural and religious make - up , stand against any rhetoric that seek to divide we base on race , religion or origin . for example , in Slough , a major multicultural hub , our strength lie in our diversity , and it be crucial to ensure that every community feel safe and respected . we aim to develop policy that promote integration and cohesion , address racism and discrimination proactively and reactively . indeed , our nation ' s rich cultural and religious diversity be its core strength . uphold and celebrate that diversity be vital to maintain Britain ' s stand as a beacon of pluralism and inclusion . by actively condemn the intolerant individual who engage in racism and hate crime in all its form , we commit to a society that value and respect every single individual . the time for mere word have pass . we need a government who not only acknowledge , but actively implement policy to combat Islamophobia . we have hear some excellent example from right hon . and hon . member today . it be crucial to address its root cause , foster understanding and create a society where hatred find no sanctuary . in a debate on Islamophobia in Parliament two year ago , I speak up about my experience as a left - wing muslim woman in the public eye . I speak up about the barrage of hate I receive on a daily basis . I talk about be call a " cancer " and be tell that my " muslim mob be a danger to humanity " , as well as about how people tell I to " go back " to my own country . that be a difficult claim to get my head around , I must admit , since I be bear in Birmingham . I speak about the bad effect of Islamophobia , and about how they be shape in this very Chamber at that very Dispatch Box in policy and political decision , from attack on civil liberty at home to disastrous decision to wage war abroad . I would like to say that in the two year since , thing have change and people have listen , and that people take Islamophobia more seriously , but I can not . if anything , thing have get bad . in recent week , as I have stand up for the right of the palestinian people , I have experience a new wave of hate . because I be a Muslim who support the right of the Palestinians , far - right trolls widely share claim that I be a Hamas supporter , repeat the allegation no matter how many time I condemn Hamas ' s killing of civilian . because I be a Muslim , when I speak up about palestinian child be indiscriminately slaughter , people write to I tell I , " keep your eff mouth shut , you muslim bitch . " and because I be a Muslim , when I call for a ceasefire and an end to the bloodshed — a view support by 76 % of the british public , but not this House — someone write to I say it be I who be " anti - democratic " and " anti - british " , and I be again tell to " go home . " I want to live in a country that look after the poor and the vulnerable at home , and respect human right and international law abroad , and where the NHS be fully fund , home be not mouldy or unaffordable , everyone can go to university without have to worry about debt , and every single person can put food on the table and keep a roof above their head . but for some people , the colour of my skin and the religion I choose to follow mean I be beyond the pale . that be difficult to process , but what make it hard be know that that racism do not come from a vacuum . as I say in the debate two year ago , that hate be not innate or natural ; it be teach from the very top by people in position of power and privilege . for example , despite a Home Office report say that most child sexual abuse gang be make up of white man and there be no evidence that groom gang be disproportionately black or asian , early this year the then Home Secretary , the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) , falsely say that groom gang be " almost all british - Pakistani " — a claim so strikingly wrong that even the press regulator call it out . it be not just politician fan the flame of hate . shortly after I give my speech , the Muslim Council of Britain Centre for Media Monitoring publish a report on the british medium ' s coverage of Muslims and Islam , analyse almost 48 , 000 article and 5 , 500 broadcast clip . it paint a very disturbing picture of how Muslims be portray in the medium . article antagonistic to Muslims be find to outnumber supportive article by a ratio of seven to one . islamophobic trope be pervasive , with the Spectator , for example , ask " tough question " such as " can Muslims learn to put country before faith community ? " the report find that false anti - muslim generalisation often go unchallenged on broadcast medium . recently , we have see Islamophobia spout by journalist , such as the newspaper editor who say that " much of muslim culture be in the grip of a death cult " . with that steady drip - feeding of hate , it be little wonder that racist tell I I be not british . that be the message right - wing outlet publish , with dog whistle and sometimes even foghorn . but as I say , the bad effect of this hate be not abusive language , but policy and political decision , and we see that today . early this year , a long - await review into the deeply controversial and widely discredit Prevent programme be publish . the review be lead by someone whose anti - muslim view be already well - know and who have say , for example : " Europe and Islam be one of the great , most terrifying problem of our future . " that person have be hand - pick for the job by a Government lead by a man who mock muslim woman as " bank robber " and " letterboxe " . it be little wonder that the review totally ignore the programme ' s discriminatory impact and undermining of democratic freedom . of course , Islamophobia be not confine to this country ; we see dehumanisation at home and abroad . even liberal british newspaper do not talk about palestinian child , instead refer — I quote a recent article — to " Palestinians aged 18 and under " . the palestinian people as a whole be often depict and treat as terrorist , deserve not of right and self - determination , but of suppression or even elimination . in India , Prime Minister Modi have introduce discriminatory anti - muslim legislation and anti - muslim mob violence be become normalise . in China , shock human right abuse and the suppression of Uyghur Muslims be well document . in the US , we have see horrify attack in recent week . the six - year - old palestinian American Wadea al - Fayoume be kill after be stab 26 time , with his landlord charge with the boy ' s murder , and three young Palestinians be gun down in what be believe to be hate crime , for the apparent wrongdoing of speak Arabic and wear keffiyehs . across Europe , the Islamophobic far right be on the rise , from the hate - fill and openly Islamophobic Geert Wilders in the Netherlands to Le Pen ' s continue advance in France . much close to home , as I discuss in the debate two year ago , I still have serious concern about my party ' s handling of Islamophobia . the Forde report into the Labour party , commission by the party ' s national executive committee and carry out by the distinguished Martin Forde KC , publish its final report in summer last year . it find that : " the Party be … operate a hierarchy of racism or of discrimination with other form of racism and discrimination " — such as Islamophobia and anti - black racism — " be ignore . " Martin Forde reiterate that view this year with a stark warning that still have not be listen to . that be why I , along with the Labour Muslim Network , have call for an independent inquiry into Islamophobia in the Labour party . today , both Islamophobia and antisemitism be rise sharply across Britain , but they be not disconnected struggle or compete concern , as some people like to portray they . the far - right thug who attack one group of we today will go for the other group tomorrow . the politician who whip up hatred against migrant now will want other scapegoat in the future , and history tell we that jewish people and Muslims be often at the top of their list . for I , the fight against Islamophobia and the fight against antisemitism be part of the same struggle : the fight to live in the world where everyone , no matter their race or religion , be able to live in dignity and freedom . I believe that we be make strong not by not pit our community against each other , but by unite our struggle and find solidarity and safety . I call the SNP spokesperson . may I start by thank the hon . member for Bradford West ( Naz Shah ) for the way in which she lead the debate ? I do not think there be a single important part of this matter that she do not touch on extremely well . I will pick up on one thing : the issue of definition — not the appg definition , which I will come to , but the United Nations definition . the UN describe Islamophobia as : " a fear , prejudice and hatred of Muslims that lead to provocation , hostility and intolerance by mean of threaten , harassment , abuse , incitement and intimidation of Muslims and non - Muslims , both in the online and offline world . motivate by institutional , ideological , political and religious hostility that transcend into structural and cultural racism , it target the symbol and marker of be a Muslim . " that be a very technical description . I will come back to the evidence of what it mean to Muslims in Scotland on a day - to - day basis , and then to the rather less technical definition . to stay with the United Nations for a moment , the recent report by the UN special rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief find that suspicion , discrimination and outright hatred towards Muslims have rise to " epidemic proportion " . the UN say : " follow the terrorist attack of 11 September 2001 and other … act of terrorism purportedly carry out in the name of Islam , institutional suspicion of Muslims and those perceive to be Muslim have escalate to epidemic proportion " and " widespread negative representation of Islam , and harmful stereotype that depict Muslims and their belief and culture as a threat have serve to perpetuate , validate and normalise discrimination , hostility and violence towards muslim individual and community . " all that be deeply disturbing , but what do it mean in practice for Muslims in Scotland ? well , the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) , who be no long in her place , touch on that . the Scottish Parliament ' s cross - party group on challenge racial and religious prejudice , and Newcastle University , have tell we a great deal : 75 % of Muslims say that Islamophobia be an everyday issue ; 80 % of Muslims say that they have a friend or family member who have experience it ; 79 % of Muslims be fearful of experience it ; 84 % argue that social medium increase it ; 85 % say that the broadcast medium promote it ; and 89 % say that the print medium promote it . we know , and it have be report , that muslim woman be disproportionately target in Islamophobic hate crime . again , those finding — from real people — be deeply worrying . what , though , be the official , measured scale of the problem in Scotland ? well , the number of charge bring for religious hate crime in Scotland over the decade between 2010 - 11 and 2021 - 22 sit at a constant of about 600 a year . sadly , the number of charge for all hate crime in Scotland sit at around 5 , 000 a year . in only one year of that same decade have the number rise above 6 , 000 , but in only one year have it fall below 5 , 000 , so there be a constant background noise of religious and other hatred . we also know from the statistic that 26 % of all religious hate crime be direct at Muslims . I be sure we would all agree that no right - minded person would argue that those number be anything other than too high . hearteningly , Police Scotland and the Procurator Fiscal Service take these matter seriously . it be report that more than 80 % of all the charge for religious hate crime do end up in court . that will cover a multitude of sin , but I believe at least that that matter be take seriously . we can not therefore dismiss Islamophobia simply because the number of those charge have sit constantly at 600 a year . we can not disregard any hate crime , when the number be sit at about 5 , 000 a year in Scotland . we can not downplay the impact of Islamophobia , because , as we have hear from the cross - party group and other , the effect on people be widespread and profound . we can not diminish the impact of Islamophobia on Muslims , or the rest of society , simply because a high proportion of the perpetrator be drag to court , although I be glad that that be the case . and we can not wish away the problem . tackle it will need cogent , coherent and concrete action , with clear political leadership . let I return to the report by the Scottish Parliament cross - party group . among many recommendation , it tell we that Scotland need urgent education reform to combat the scourge of Islamophobia — I be certain that be the case in England too . it tell we that muslim woman in Scotland be more likely to encounter Islamophobia than man , and call for funding and support for organisation and initiative that promote social cohesion and integration , particularly for muslim woman . I be certain that that demand would be mirror in England as well . I will not go through the list of the many other recommendation the group make , all of which I agree with . I want now to get to the point on definition , because the cross - party group persuade all of Scotland ' s political party to adopt the formal definition of Islamophobia . that be describe as " a landmark moment that will help tackle prejudice in Scotland . " member of the all - party group here will recognise the definition : " Islamophobia be root in racism and be a type of racism that target expression of Muslimness or perceive Muslimness . " if every political party represent in the Scottish Parliament can formally adopt that , I would agree with the Labour chair of the Scottish Parliament cross - party group , who say : " I now urge the UK Government to adopt the definition so that we can challenge hatred and prejudice wherever it exist across the country . " that do not strike I as be contentious ; it ought to have be do already and if it have not be , it should be do very quickly indeed . I want to end with a rebuttal to those who dismiss the issue of Islamophobia . I be talk about those hard of thinking who argue that there would be no Islamophobia " if only they " — whoever " they " be — " be more like ' we ' . " it be not clear what that mean . I feel strongly on this and I wish to challenge that view by quote something that UN Secretary - General Ant ó nio Guterres say when mark the first International Day to Combat Islamophobia , in 2021 . he point out that anti - muslim bigotry be part of a large trend of a resurgence in ethno - nationalism , neo - nazism , stigma and hate speech target vulnerable population , include Muslims , Jews and some minority christian community , as well as other . he say : " as the Holy Quran remind we : nation and tribe be create to know one another . diversity be a richness , not a threat " . that mirror what many have say ; it be intolerance that be the problem , not diversity . it be incumbent on all of we to challenge intolerance , include Islamophobia , and to do so , to be brutally honest , whenever we see it . I call the Opposition spokesperson . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Bradford West ( Naz Shah ) and the hon . member for Peterborough ( Paul Bristow ) for secure this important debate . Islamophobia , like all form of discrimination , serve to divide our community . it be a grave form of injustice that restrict the ability of Muslims , or those perceive to be Muslims , to participate equally and completely in our society . Islamophobia culminate in violent hate crime , target discrimination and structural disparity affect access to employment , housing and healthcare , and it impede the ability of those affect to go about their daily life . our failure to take action to tackle this hatred threaten our democratic principle of fairness and equality , and in so doing , undermine our social cohesion as a whole . we see this hatred manifest online , on our street and in our public space , and at its most extreme , in violent act of terror and murder . we remember Makram Ali , who be senselessly murder in Finsbury Park in 2017 , alongside the attempt murder of nine other . that premeditated attack on innocent Muslims by a far - right attacker devastate victim , family and entire community . we also remember two more grandfather , Mushin Ahmed and Mohammed Saleem , as well as the victim of the Christchurch terrorist attack . all have their life tragically take from they as a result of insidious hatred . this serve as a terrible reminder of the consequence of Islamophobia and the failure to tackle it . this debate come at a difficult time in the international community . the disgusting rise in both Islamophobia and antisemitism since the attack on 7 October expose just how real the issue of discrimination be on Britain ' s street . let I start by condemn those brutal attack and the shocking rise in racism that we have see since that day . since Hamas ' s terrorist attack , our country have see a disgusting rise in antisemitism , with jewish business attack , jewish school mark with red paint and jewish family hide who they be . we have also see an appalling surge in Islamophobia , with racist graffiti , mosque force to ramp up security and british Muslims and Palestinians speak to as though they be terrorist . while this debate focus on the experience of Islamophobia , we can not lose sight of the ongoing injustice face by the jewish community in Britain . do the hon . Lady agree that one of the most telling point make during the debate be the hon . member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) say at the conclusion of her speech that the most effective response to Islamophobia and antisemitism be when both community stand by each other in resist both those threat ? yes , my hon . friend the Member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) make a very important point . we all need to stand together to ensure that we defeat Islamophobia and antisemitism . member who have take part in this debate include my hon . friend the Members for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) , for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) and for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Manchester , Gorton ( Afzal Khan ) , for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) , for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) and for Coventry South . all of they have speak about their experience and those of the community in their constituency . for some of the member who have speak , Islamophobia have affect their safety and that of their community . one thing they all have in common be that they be clear that we must act to tackle Islamophobia and ensure that we take real action , and all call on the Government to do that . year after year , british Muslims be the victim of the high proportion of religiously motivate hate crime . over the past 10 year , we have see a shocking and rapid rise in incident be report to tell MAMA , as we have hear , with case double between 2012 and 2022 . tell MAMA ' s tireless commitment to tackle Islamophobia have ensure that we have a detailed database , from which it be possible to identify key trend emerge in frequency , scope and substance , so that we can work to tackle the particular form that Islamophobia take . that datum show that high - profile event act as a trigger for steep rise in bigotry , both online and at street level , as they be weaponise by perpetrator to drive discrimination and violence . this week , Tell MAMA report that it have record more than 1 , 200 case follow the Hamas terror attack of 7 October , represent a sevenfold rise on the same period last year and the large , most sustained spike in report to its service across a 55 - day reporting period . behind these number be real people who have be subject to abuse and harm . it be vital that we come together in this House to say that Islamophobia be not acceptable in any form . the Labour party stand firmly with the victim of islamophobic hatred and commit to work across our nation to ensure that it be eradicate . it be of utmost importance that we recognise the impact of Islamophobia on people ' s life , and that we recognise the work of grassroot , community and religious organisation that have dedicate themselves to tackle it . the message from muslim community and organisation be clear that , to tackle this bigotry , we must be able to identify it . yet this Government have say that they do not support take forward an official definition of Islamophobia . follow a six - month inquiry into the subject , the definition propose by the APPG on british Muslims have be widely recognise and endorse across many section of civil society , include among academic , muslim community and prominent muslim organisation . I be proud to say that we have adopt this definition in the Labour party , and it have also be adopt by the Liberal Democrats , Plaid Cymru , the SNP and the scottish Conservatives . in 2021 , Labour ' s shadow Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government , the chair of the Labour party and the leader of the Local Government Association Labour group write to the leader of all labour group in local government to encourage their council to adopt this definition . since then , hundred of council across the country have take the appg definition on board , yet the Government have see fit to reject this definition and have since fail to come forward with an alternative definition of their own , as they have once promise . this dereliction be both substantive and symbolic in its failure to take Islamophobia seriously . the hon . Lady will have see that I have challenge my Government ' s action . if she be a Minister in that position , would she commit to appoint an independent adviser on Islamophobia straight away , as my party have on antisemitism ? can she confirm that , look at the figure for Islamophobia / anti - muslim hatred and antisemitism , there will be equal funding to deal with those two unacceptable form of behaviour ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . we first need to get the basic right by adopt this definition of Islamophobia . we be committed to take further step to ensure that Islamophobia be stamp out . tell MAMA have document how this racism dehumanise Muslims , sometimes draw on conspiracy theory to do so . it target expression of Muslimness or perceive Muslimness , whether real or imagine , and in do so reduce diverse community of people to a group identity . the power of the appg definition be that it recognise this . just like the international Holocaust Remembrance Alliance definition of antisemitism , the APPG ' s definition be not legally binding . instead , it be intend to serve as a workable yardstick for action against Islamophobia . we must be able to name and identify Islamophobia , and that apply as much to the political arena as anywhere else . just as high - profile event trigger peak in discriminatory behaviour , what we say in this House and in our medium have an impact on the abuse that people face online and on our street . when the former Prime Minister , the former Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip , refer to muslim woman as " letterboxe " , there be a dramatic rise in incident report to tell MAMA . the week follow his comment see the number of incident rise by 375 % . over that month , 42 % of street - base case directly reference he or language use in his column . since then , we have continue to hear language in the House that risk endanger ethnic and religious minority . we have see the former Home Secretary refer to pro - palestinian marche as " hate marche " , and the Conservative London mayoral candidate engage in Islamophobic trope . I appreciate the hon . Lady give way , but be she plan to react to criticism from Labour Members on the Benches behind she , who cite the Forde inquiry , which state that a " hierarchy of racism " operate in the Labour party ? I thank the hon . member for that comment , and I do indeed hear those comment . what I would say be that , within the Labour party , we be seek to address any issue that relate to Islamophobia . we must remember that we have a choice in this House : to empower community or to seek to divide they . our word have consequence beyond this Chamber . it be deeply worry that the normalisation of extremist language from the conservative party have directly coincide with a rise in offence be report . as political party , we must , as I say , take responsibility for identify and tackle Islamophobia in our own rank . when people ask , " well , what ' s labour do about it ? " , the answer be that that be what we be do : we have change our party , and we be ready to change the country . at our party conference in 2021 , Labour pass a new independent complaint process to make it fair and easy for people to bring forward case of discrimination . we have adopt new code of conduct on Islamophobia , and we have invest in training staff and publish a handbook that will illustrate how our party can challenge Islamophobia directly . we have commit , when in government , to tackle structural racial inequality with a landmark race equality Act . we owe it to our muslim community and to community of all faith to do more to protect they from these form of hate . the first step in tackle that hate be to identify it , so will the Minister commit today to adopt the appg definition of Islamophobia ? will she also encourage conservative - run local authority to adopt it ? will she and her colleague work with the police to ensure that victim of Islamophobic abuse feel able to report incident and that they be support and keep in the loop throughout the process ? what step will she take in her own Department to understand household and neighbourhood - relate case of Islamophobic abuse and to work with local authority and muslim community to ensure that such case be handle sensitively ? finally , what effort be the Government make to understand and tackle Islamophobia in educational institution and to eradicate ethnicity pay gap ? we owe it to muslim community to tackle Islamophobia in our party and in wide society — on the street of our country and online . we have commit to do so , and I hope the Government will do the same . I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Bradford West ( Naz Shah ) and my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Paul Bristow ) for this debate , and I pay tribute to every Member who speak . the hon . member for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) and for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) talk about their own personal experience of abuse , and I be deeply trouble by it . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Gillingham and Rainham ( Rehman Chishti ) for his work as the special envoy for freedom of religion and belief , and I be always happy to talk to he . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( Dr Offord ) , who represent a large muslim community . I would also like to say to the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) that I be happy to help facilitate a meeting . the debate also have personal significance for I , as mine be one of the most diverse constituency in the country . in fact , I meet the hon . member for Manchester , Gorton ( Afzal Khan ) with a large delegation from Indonesia whom I have happen to bump into that morning at my local mosque . I be privileged in that more than 12 % of my electorate in Kensington be muslim , and Kensington be home to the al - Manaar mosque , which play a pivotal role of support during the Grenfell tragedy and the pandemic . my constituency be also home to the Ismaili Centre in South Kensington , the religious and cultural centre of Ismaili Muslims in the UK , who have such a tradition of charitable giving . many member have say today that this be not an issue simply of one religion , and I be pleased that there be a very active interfaith group in my constituency where representative of the al - Manaar mosque , the Holland Park synagogue , the Holland Park gurdwara and several christian church come together regularly . we meet collectively soon after 7 October . I be also proud of the fact that the first Muslim MP to become a Secretary of State and the holder of one of the great office of state be a Conservative — my right hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Sajid Javid ) , who be also a good friend of mine . I pay tribute to our british muslim community who make a huge contribution to the United Kingdom in all walk of life , and to the strengthening of the tie that bind our country together . we have 3 . 9 million british Muslims , 6 . 5 % of the UK population . early this year , the Prime Minister host an Iftar and an Eid reception at 10 Downing Street , where he be join by many committed champion of muslim charity and organisation who , day in day out , enrich our social capital . muslim value be , of course , british value . freedom of speech , freedom of worship , democracy , the rule of law and equal right be what define we as a society , and recognise and champion those share value be the great defence against those who would seek to divide we . I genuinely welcome the Minister ' s response and the passion with which she be lay out her thought , but be she aware that there be a list that muslim organisation have to tick in order to enjoy those samosa that be offer at 10 Downing Street ? the Muslim Council of Britain , one of the large mainstream muslim organisation , do not make the list . organisation that do not agree with the Government be not include in it . will the Minister be encourage 10 Downing Street to change that policy ? I be very much of the view that 10 Downing Street be in a position to decide whom to invite . I do not think that I be in that position . I want to make it very clear that this Government will not tolerate anti - muslim hatred in any form , and will seek to stamp it out where it occur . sadly , however , as we have hear , since the beginning of the conflict between Israel and Hamas we have witness a substantial increase in the number of incident of anti - muslim hatred report in Britain . the Government be deeply concerned about the sharp rise in anti - muslim hatred , which come alongside a steep increase in antisemitic incident , as well as wide community tension . tell MAMA , as many have say , have document a total of more than 1 , 200 anti - muslim case as of 30 November . this represent an unacceptable sevenfold surge compare to the same period in 2022 , and the big and most sustained spike in report to tell MAMA across a 55 - day reporting period . the Prime Minister have be clear that we stand with british muslim community , and he recently visit tell MAMA to see first - hand the work it be do to support british Muslims at this difficult time . the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and the Home Secretary have also meet Tell MAMA and muslim expert to hear from they about the challenge arise from the conflict . on the anti - muslim hatred and Islamophobia that the Minister describe , could she define what that Islamophobia be ? in May 2023 one of her ministerial colleague in the Department say that they would not accept the APPG ' s definition and write : " the propose definition could also unintentionally undermine freedom of speech and prevent legitimate criticism of islamist extremism or unacceptable cultural practice . " can the Minister describe how that be the case ? I will go on to talk about definition , but I will continue briefly on Tell MAMA , if I may . this year tell MAMA mark its 10 - year anniversary . over the past decade , I be glad to say , it have directly assist more than 20 , 000 people with casework , advice , emotional and counsel support and signposting . I be also proud that the Government have give tell MAMA more than £ 6 million of funding since its inception in 2012 . in light of the current increase in report to tell MAMA , we have uplift its funding to more than £ 1 million this financial year to support it with the rise in casework . in addition to support Tell MAMA and bring together muslim voice , we have extend the deadline for application to the protective security for mosque scheme . Mosques and muslim community centre will now have until 31 December to apply for funding for the scheme . the extension have be grant in light of the current tension we see play out on UK street and come with an additional £ 5 million of funding this year , bring the total Government funding for the scheme to just under £ 30 million . that announcement be make at the autumn statement . that be vital funding that mosque and , for the first time , muslim faith school can use to procure physical security measure to combat the discrimination and intolerance face by muslim community . I be pleased to say that that funding will continue into 2025 . plan be in place to introduce guard service for both mosque and muslim faith school later this year . will the Minister give way ? I will , but this will be the last intervention I will take . I be grateful to the Minister . she will be aware that the Community Security Trust , which be base in my constituency , have long offer advice and assistance to other faith group , include muslim school and mosque , to ensure that their safety be equally paramount to that of the jewish community . I pay tribute to the CST for all the work it do . I have mention that security funding provision for mosque be just under £ 30 million , but I can tell hon . member that the total security budget for faith community be £ 50 . 9 million in total . rise — I be afraid I be not go to take any more intervention . I have already take one from the hon . Lady and I be conscious that there be another debate to come . we remain fully committed to tackle anti - muslim hatred head on , through a co - ordinate cross - departmental effort , work with the Home Office and obviously with the police . we already have some of the strong legislation in the world to tackle hate crime and , where group incite racial hatred or be engage in racially or religiously motivate criminal activity , we would expect they to be prosecute and to face the full force of the law . to help to improve our understanding of hate crime , we have be work closely with the police in recent year to improve our datum and we can now disaggregate hate crime by ethnicity and by religion . our support for british Muslims be reflect by our strong track record of work with international partner to respond to hatred and intolerance and to promote freedom of religion and belief . to that end , in response to a question from an hon . member , we be proud to have support the United Nations General Assembly resolution last year establish 15 March as International Day to Combat Islamophobia . rise — I have say that I will take no more intervention . before I finish , I want to clarify this Government ' s position on terminology . I thank the all - party parliamentary group on british Muslims and the two co - chair , the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) and my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough , for the work they have champion to celebrate the contribution of british Muslims and to tackle prejudice , discrimination and hatred against Muslims in the UK . however , I want to make it clear that this government do not accept that particular definition of Islamophobia . the definition propose by the APPG be not in line with the Equality Act 2010 , which define race in term of colour , nationality and national or ethnic origin . the propose definition could also unintentionally undermine freedom of speech . the term " anti - muslim hatred " be more precise and well reflect UK hate crime legislation . let I put it in simple term : free speech entitle people to express view on religion or ideology , but they must not hate or discriminate against someone because of their religion . that be why we think that " anti - muslim hatred " be a more appropriate term . I have be ask about the Government ' s future step . I be glad to say that we be undertake broad and extensive engagement on religious hatred against all community . we be consider all issue as part of that , include definition . we know that british Muslims feel especially vulnerable at this time . I hope it be crystal clear through the many initiative that I have outline that this Government will always stand up for british Muslims . they be an integral part of our proudly plural , multi - faith , multi - ethnic United Kingdom . we have say loud and clear that anti - muslim hatred have no place in british society and we will not allow the scourge of religious hatred to manifest in any shape or form . during debate such as these , I often reflect on the wisdom of the former Member for Batley and Spen , Jo Cox , when she remark : " we be far more united and have far more in common than that which divide we . " — [ Official Report , 3 June 2015 ; Vol . 596 , c . 675 . ] this Government be commit to ensure that the value of diversity , tolerance and compassion extend to all our community . there we have it . I thank everyone who have speak in the debate , but the Government policy and response to tackle Islamophobia be : " we ' ll pick and choose who we invite to no . 10 for tea and samosa , but no policy . and we will not accept your definition as you Muslims decide to define it base on your experience of discrimination . no , we don ' t accept it , because we be the Government , and when it come to you Muslims , we will apply not the liberal democratic principle that we apply to the rest of the country , but a totalitarian approach . " that be the Government ' s response to tackle Islamophobia . well do . what be I expect ? dare I imagine a Government who would not miss another opportunity to put policy in place to tackle Islamophobia ? no ; just a long list of opportunity miss by this Government and this Prime Minister , who " stand with the british muslim community . " no — not unless they fit the Government ' s criterion . if it walk like a duck , quack like a duck and swim like a duck , it be a duck . if it feel like gaslighte and sound like gaslighte , as a Muslim and a representative of a large , muslim constituency of Bradford , let I tell the government : it be gaslighte . that be what we have have from those on the Government Benches today . what a shame that they do not uphold the british value that bring we here : the british value of equality , fairness , justice and treat people equally . the Government be say , " let ' s treat you Muslims differently . we be not go to give you a definition of Islamophobia , and we do not want you to have a say on what it feel like to experience Islamophobia . we will just call it anti - muslim hatred . " the hon . member for Gillingham and Rainham ( Rehman Chishti ) be right to say that the Prime Minister be not just gaslighte , but have create a hierarchy of racism . he do not treat Islamophobia as equal , and it dishearten I . I will just wait for the next general election and let people vote with their foot by choose the party that stand for equality , justice and fairness . it certainly ain ' t the Tories . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the matter of tackle Islamophobia . Beneficial Ownership Registers : Overseas Territories and Crown Dependencies I beg to move , that this House note the implementation of public register of beneficial ownership in the UK ' s Overseas Territories and Crown Dependencies ; believe that the Government need to respect the will of Parliament and meet the implementation deadline at the end of 2023 ; encourage the Government to lay an order in Council formally require the UK ' s Overseas Territories to implement public register of beneficial ownership if the deadline be not meet ; and consider public register of beneficial ownership to be an essential transparency measure to combat tax evasion , money laundering and other economic crime . this debate should not be necessary . the House express its view when it agree an amendment to the Sanctions and Anti - Money Laundering Act 2018 that require overseas territory to voluntarily introduce register of beneficial ownership within two year or face an order in Council mandate compliance . five year have pass since the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) and I move the amendment , and the only overseas territory to comply with the legislation be Gibraltar , which I salute . while I understand that the Minister be make progress with some of the other jurisdiction , they have yet to comply with our legislation . journalist have reveal that the family of Asif Aziz , a landlord to my constituent in Britannia Point , Colliers Wood , manage a large property portfolio register under dozen of company on the Isle of Man . there be no beneficial owner list , so complaint can never reach the landlord . we already have legislation that require offshore company that own property to declare their owner on a register . do my right hon . friend agree that properly resource enforcement be essential , and that have public register of beneficial owner would make it much easy to identify and scrutinise the beneficial owner of offshore shell company ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for bring that to our attention . sadly , it be an issue not just of enforcement but of definition . I bet that the landlord in her constituency own the property through a trust , and there be no openness about beneficial ownership of trust . she make a very important point . I apologise for not be able to stay for the whole debate . I strongly support this debate . I put it to the right hon . Lady that the reason why people hide thing in trust and offshore be either to avoid embarrassment or to avoid tax . People ought to do well , so that they will not be embarrassed , and they ought to pay tax properly . I thank the hon . member for his support . I agree that it be partly about reputation and partly about avoid tax , but it be also about indulge in economic crime , from money launder through to the bad crime that stain our country and our economy . as the Father of the House have just intervene and I be the long - serve Member on the Opposition side of the House , may I say that I be a long - term supporter of what my right hon . friend have be try to do ? owe to our time together as undergraduate at the London School of Economics , I know that she be a determined woman . let we get on with it — let we hold these people to account and change the law . I thank my hon . friend for his support — he be probably my old friend in the House ; we go back many year — and I hope that the Government hear his urging . could we add one more to the list of reason why people conceal their identity in this way , which be to avoid sanction , include sanction place by our own government ? the right hon . Member make a really important point , which I will come to later . he be right : this be a national security threat as well as a threat to our economy . the Government have yet to comply with the legislation by make an order in Council to mandate compliance by the overseas territory . after discussion between the Crown dependency and the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield and myself , the three Crown dependency — Jersey , Guernsey and the Isle of Man — announce in May 2019 that they be committed to introduce public register and set out a plan to do so . although I welcome that in principle , I be concern that their commitment be qualified and that their action plan contain a number of opt - out clause . however , on the basis of their commitment , we choose not to legislate but to trust they . it now seem that our trust be misplace . they be renege on that commitment and use every excuse not to comply . I understand how strongly the right hon . Member feel . may I point out that , as a matter of constitutional fact , we have no right to legislate for any of the Crown dependency ? constitutionally , they be not subject to the jurisdiction of this Parliament . I have enormous respect and time for the hon . member , but I have an opinion from a renowned KC that we seek at that time — I will come to it later — which contradict entirely his point and say that we do have the constitutional right to legislate . I want to comment not on the substance of what the right hon . Lady be talk about but merely on the procedural aspect . she will know that the Procedure Committee be look at the impact of legislation in this place on devolved legislature , the overseas territory and the Crown dependency , and I be interested in her comment and look forward to her speech , but do she agree that we should try to find a way for the voice of the overseas territory to be hear when we legislate in this place if there be implication for they ? indeed . I would love for we to be able to do this in a consensual way ; that would obviously be the good way to proceed . sadly , we have be wait for 10 year , and my patience have wear a little thin . give the implication both for national security and for the economy , the time have come to say , " enough be enough . " we should use the power that we have . the right hon . member be be generous with her time . the 2022 ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union state that unrestricted public access to beneficial ownership information be incompatible with the right to life . will she cover that ? I will . the hon . Member will know as well as I do that we be no long a member of the European Union , so we be not bind by that finding . why do all this matter ? the epidemic of tax avoidance , tax evasion and economic crime flourish in an environment of secrecy , and our overseas territory and Crown dependency facilitate that secrecy . we know from the ever - grow number of leak of datum on financial misdemeanour that their role be central to enable economic crime . half the shell company expose in the 2016 Panama paper be incorporate in the british Virgin Islands . in 2017 , the Paradise paper — a massive tranche of document leak from the offshore law firm Appleby — show that a frightening number of frontline politician hold secret account , with the overseas territory appear prominently as destination of choice for hide money . those include people such as Justin Trudeau ' s chief fundraiser , Donald Trump ' s Commerce Secretary , Brazil ' s Finance Minister , Uganda ' s Foreign Minister , and our own Lord Ashcroft , who have — and probably still have — a Bermuda - base trust where he hide some of his wealth . some 20 % of the file in the fincen — Financial Crimes Enforcement Network — leak of 2020 contain client that list an address in the british Virgin Islands . the leak also reveal , because it be a leak of document from an american agency , that the Americans view Britain as a high - risk jurisdiction for its role in money laundering and financial crime . the Pandora paper leak of 2021 involve 12 million file , with datum from 14 different law firm and company service provider . over two third of the company analyse in that batch of leak document be register in the BVI . a World Bank review of 213 corruption case that be investigate over the 30 - year period to 2010 find that 70 % involve anonymous shell company . the UK , its overseas territory and Crown dependency account for the second jurisdiction in term of the number of corruption case associate with it . what I be learn from my right hon . friend ' s excellent speech be that London be the centre of the world for hide money , because so many professional in this city know how to do it . be that correct ? yes . sadly , London have become the jurisdiction of choice for too much of our dirty money . the all - party parliamentary group on anti - corruption and responsible tax have be successful — albeit not as much as I would have like — in achieve change to economic crime legislation to challenge and start tackle that . I congratulate my right hon . friend on lead the debate , and more particularly on the forensic and persistent way she have deal with this issue over so many year . it be clear that London be the centre of much of the wrongdoing in this area . that be not a coincidence ; it be because the Government have be permissive . have she have an indication of whether they be now prepared to back her proposal ? my hon . friend be right . I have often say that it be not just this Government who have do that ; the Labour Government , in their time , also deregulate to such an extent that they allow London to become the centre of this activity . I do not feel that the Government be do all that they can to try to turn that around . I await a future Labour Government , and I will watch Labour Ministers with an eagle eye to ensure that they do that . the debate be not just about the role of the overseas territory and Crown dependency in facilitate economic crime ; their activity as secrecy jurisdiction be a threat to our national security , as the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) say . the Foreign Affairs Committee say as much in a report on the matter , and as recently as November it call on the Government to ensure that the overseas territory fulfil their commitment , add that " there should be no further deadline extension . " we know , for example , that between 2008 and 2018 , £ 68 billion flow out of Russia and into our overseas territory . we be a favourite jurisdiction for receive Russian - launder money . we know that individual who be sanction use the overseas territory and Crown dependencie to hide their asset just before sanction to prevent those asset from be frozen . Abramovich and usmanov be two classic example of that practice . we know the role of the overseas territory in prevent we from know the actual beneficial owner of property in the UK . over 70 % of the property in the list of those that we know about be own by company register either in the Crown dependency or the BVI . we still can not identify the beneficial owner of two third of those 70 % , because they use trust to hide their identity , and 85 % — more than eight out of 10 — of those trust arrangement be base in the three Crown dependency and the BVI . most recently , in the Cyprus paper , which have just be uncover , we find a direct link between Vladimir Putin and Roman Abramovich , with money go from Abramovich to two man dub as " wallet " for Putin — a man whose salary be $ 100 , 000 , but whose wealth be rumour to be between $ 125 billion and $ 200 billion . the theft of money from the russian people be facilitate by secrecy jurisdiction such as Cyprus , but also by our own tax haven . the problem be massive , and the role of our overseas territory and Crown dependency be central . Baron Cameron of Chipping Norton understand that when he go to Davos in January 2013 — over 10 year ago — and warn multinational to " wake up and smell the coffee " . I will give a few more quote from he . in 2013 , he pledge : " every one of the Crown Dependencies and Overseas Territories be go to have an action plan on beneficial ownership " . he tell the overseas territory to rip aside the " cloak of secrecy " by create public register of beneficial ownership . in 2014 , he write to the overseas territory , say that public register be " vital to meet the urgent challenge of illicit finance and tax evasion . " in September 2015 , he accuse they of " frankly … not move anywhere near fast enough … if we want to break the business model of people steal money and hide it in place where it can ' t be see : transparency be the answer . " when Lord Cameron launch our UK register in 2016 , he say that " it ' s well for we all to have an open system which everyone have access to , because the more eye that look at this information the more accurate it will be . " at the anti - corruption summit in May 2016 , he say : " we ' ve talk about the need for every country to ultimately reach what I call the gold standard of have a public register of beneficial ownership . and I be clear that I include all the Overseas Territories and Crown Dependencies . " Lord Cameron be now in a position to act , and I urge the Minister to tell his boss to do so . when even Nigeria , Ukraine , Albania and Morocco have introduce public register , why can our tax haven not ? use the European Court of Justice rule to delay the implementation of public register be a convenient but lame excuse . it actually have not deter Gibraltar . while some country have close their register , other have keep they open . crown dependency in particular be act in a completely dishonourable way . their role in facilitate economic crime and tax avoidance be indisputable , and their protestation to the contrary be simply untrue . their behaviour in provide public assurance that they will move towards public register but claim that the european court ruling prevent they from do so be , in my view , unforgivable . my right hon . friend be be generous in give way . I absolutely support everything that she be say , but can we also have more publicity about what be happen with people who do not pay tax in this country ? Jim Ratcliffe of INEOS have become very rich and now do not pay tax in this country . I understand that the Daily Mail do not pay any taxis . could we not have an ad in the Sunday Times rich list about those who actually pay their taxis ? I be leave wonder whether the Sunday Times would ever publish that — we shall see . let I address the point make by the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) . in April 2019 , the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield and I seek legal advice about whether it would be constitutionally lawful for the UK Parliament to legislate to compel all Crown dependency to establish public register of beneficial ownership . I have the advice here , which conclude : " it be beyond doubt that the intrusion of criminal fund into the UK economy threaten the interest of the UK . it be also beyond doubt that extensive fund in this category emanate from the Crown dependency . " the last sentence state : " the propose amendment " — we put an amendment to the King ' s Counsel to consider whether it be lawful — " be a constitutionally legitimate and lawful exercise of the UK ' s power to secure its domestic interest by protect confidence in its financial institution and the integrity of the commercial life of the nation " . finally — I recognise that we be run out of time — I want to touch on the compromise that I think the Minister be seek to secure in his negotiation with our tax haven . the compromise be that in order to have access , a member of the public need to have a legitimate interest , a term that be introduce in the European Union ' s sixth anti - money laundering directive . we already have that proviso in relation to the register of overseas property , and I draw to the Minister ' s attention the fact that Transparency International have put in inquiry in six case to get information , have wait for four to six month , and have then see those request for information turn down by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . all of those request be in relation to trust list as the beneficial owner of overseas company that hold property here in the UK , and we would have expect they to be on that register and for the information to be provide . surely , every single citizen of this country have a legitimate interest in close the kind of loophole that have allow rotten , dirty money to come flood into our jurisdiction . do my right hon . friend agree that it have have huge detrimental effect on ordinary people — who do not have trust fund and be unlikely to inherit anything — such as the huge increase in property price that have force many people out of the housing market ? my hon . friend make an important point : those who suffer the most be the poor in our community . one must remember that no tax be levy on all this illicit finance , so it do not fund the public service that we require . I would also point out to the Minister that a legitimate interest proviso do not meet the requirement of the Sanctions and Anti - Money Laundering Act 2018 : the term of the draft order in Council specifically say that we want " a compliant publicly accessible register " . I ask the Minister to think about that . sunlight be the good disinfectant — we all know that . if we be serious about our effect to clamp down on dirty money and eliminate it from Britain , and from our overseas territory and Crown dependency , we must have public register , so that we can at the very least start to follow the money . for the sake of people who might not be expert in this field , can the right hon . Lady explain the extent to which those Crown dependency and overseas territory themselves know where the real ownership of the resource reside ? can we be sure that they themselves know what information be be conceal and ought to be make public , or that we will have get to the bottom of the matter if it be make public ? I be not sure I can answer that , because I do not know whether they know , but there have be one or two instance where whistleblower have come to see I — about Jersey , for example . it have be very difficult to find out and identify how much the Jersey authority know , and why or whether they take action on the information that be available . it would be wonderful if the right hon . Gentleman ' s Committee could look at this issue in great detail to establish that . illicit finance be not just an evil in itself : it be the golden thread that run through all serious crime , from drug smuggling to people smuggle . it threaten our national security , hit the poor country the hard , and starve our public service of much - need investment . it be in recognition of that importance that we establish the strong cross - party consensus in the House that lead to the 2018 law , which be agree unanimously in this House . ten year have pass since David Cameron first openly support public register , and five year have pass since we legislate , but we be still wait . that be not good enough . it be the job of the Executive to implement the will of Parliament . to that end , I ask the Minister to take two action . first , will he now lay an order in Council , require the overseas territory to introduce public register of beneficial ownership forthwith ? secondly , will he legislate to require Crown dependency to do the same ? if the government do not act , I can assure he that Parliament will , for we must — for the sake of our economy , for the sake of our security and for the sake of our reputation . I urge the Government to move forward on this issue . five people have indicate that they wish to speak , and the wind - up will begin at 4 . 30 . that mean eight minute for Richard Thomson , 10 minute each for Stephen Doughty and Mr Rutley , and two minute for Margaret Hodge to wind up . if people stick to five minute , everybody will get equal time . it be a pleasure to see the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) in her place and I congratulate she on secure this debate . she and I have agree on many issue and have work together closely in the past . I happen to support the concept of a public register of beneficial ownership in the United Kingdom , and I support it when it be first introduce . I declare my interest as chair of the Gibraltar all - party parliamentary group . as the right hon . Lady have observe , Gibraltar have establish a public register of beneficial ownership . it be right , therefore , that we should not treat all the overseas territory as homogenous . in one respect , Gibraltar , with its particular link both to the United Kingdom and Europe , have choose to go in that direction , and we should support it in have do so . that be its decision as a self - govern overseas territory . it have continue to do that , even though it must be observe — and we should not make light of this fact — that the ruling of the European Court of Justice have now mean that some 23 of the 27 EU state have close their register . we should be careful about dismiss that . it do not apply to we anymore , because we have leave the European Union , but we should not dismiss that fact and simply pooh - pooh it , because it have an impact on other . Gibraltar choose , despite that , to continue with its register . that bring we to the position of the Crown dependency . I refer to this matter , of course , as chair of the Justice Committee ; we have to remember that the constitutional position of the Crown dependency be totally different from that of the overseas territory . they be not part of the United Kingdom and never have be . I say that with due respect to any legal opinion that can be produce — frankly , though , one legal opinion count for very little against century of constitutional convention and the view of successive british government of all party . the simple fact be that the Crown dependency have never be subject to this Parliament . they be not represent in this Parliament . they have their own legislature , which be sovereign in those matter . we should not allow good intention to lead we into arrogance as an institution and purport to legislate in area where we have no right . I happen to think that , if I be in one of those legislature , I might well be make the case for broaden out their register , but it be not for we to presume to do so . there have be some progress . as a Select Committee , we take some evidence from the Crown dependency in our role of scrutinise the Ministry of Justice , which handle the relationship — it be not the Foreign Office that do so . I be delighted to see the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) in his place . he have establish a very constructive relationship with the Crown dependency . what we have be this : the Crown dependency have choose at the moment not to go down the route that we have go down . if we want they to go down that route , we must persuade they to do so of their own volition as sovereign independent country . that may well be where they get to . at the end of the day , there have be some movement . as a matter of fact , be they here , they would say that they do have central , fully compliant , authorised and accurate register of beneficial ownership . they be not open to the public as of yet , but they do meet international standard . they be subject to the moneyval monitoring process of the European Union and they comply with all the international standard . we have choose to go far than those standard , but they have go as far as that . secondly , all three of they , in lockstep on national interest matter and money laundering , transpose into their domestic law all the sanction that we have bring in as the UK in relation to Russia , and it be no good pretend otherwise . the national security argument be therefore , frankly , a rather thin one . there be well argument to make , such as good practice . none the less , they tell we when they give evidence to the Committee that there have be an intention to move towards a great degree of openness in their register . they have take the view , and it be their choice at the moment , on their legal advice — their legal system be as good in their sphere as ours be in our — that they wish to take stock of the decision of the European Court of Justice and the impact it may have on they , not least because they have a data adequacy agreement with the EU . when they read the detailed decision of the ECJ , as I have , the Crown dependency find difficulty in both a disproportionality between general public access and right to privacy — those right under the charter of fundamental right , I might observe , mirror exactly those in the european convention on human right , which , as it happen , bind we still — and in relation to data protection . they be concern about a potential risk to their data protection equivalence with the EU . let we hope that we be able to find a way in which we can all agree a sensible step forward . as I understand it , the Crown dependency be commit to make an announcement later this month that they will be extend their work far . they be look first of all at oblige entity — people who need to carry out due diligence — and then at the concept of legitimate interest . that be a step forward . let we perhaps wait and see what they say . we will get more progress with our Crown dependency friend by co - operation and discussion than we will , with respect , by lecture . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) for secure this debate , and for her consistent and tireless work in tackle the scourge of illicit finance . as she say , the introduction of public register of beneficial ownership in our country ' s offshore financial centre ought not to need debating , and it should have happen many year ago . yesterday , after seven long year , the Hillsborough family finally get a response from the Government to Bishop Jones ' s report , yet it be a response that reject his key recommendation . this government have be even more tardy when it come to deliver on their declare policy of public register of beneficial ownership . it have be almost 10 year since the Prime Minister , Lord Cameron , call on our overseas territory and dependency to raise their transparency standard , and not a lot have happen , as we have hear . after five year , amendment be make to what become the Sanctions and Anti - Money Laundering Act 2018 , require territory and dependency to act . by that time , the Prime Minister have gamble and lose the Brexit referendum , and he have leave office , leave Parliament and get embroil in the dubious activity of Lex Greensill , and still nothing have change . the case for transparency be clear and unarguable , and the fight against crime and corruption require it , but we be still no far forward . Lord Cameron have return to Parliament in a new guise as Foreign Secretary . I hope he will once more be directly responsible for policy in this area , and I hope he will be able to help we make some real and meaningful progress . the public disclosure of company ownership information would facilitate the trailing of money and identity and illicit activity , and deter money laundering , crime and sanction bust , and it be essential that we make progress . labour have repeatedly try to push the Government to act . both last year and this year , my hon . friend the Member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) move amendment to the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Bill , which would have require the Government to lay an order in Council and to make some progress , but the Government defeat they . they continue to say they be do thing while achieve no real outcome that make a difference . the facilitating of illicit finance through our overseas territory and Crown dependency pose a serious threat in a number of way . as my right hon . friend the Member for Barking say , it deprive the public purse of fund , and it prevent true economic stability . it pose very real threat to our national security , and it affect each and every citizen of this country , be it in underfunded public service , high than expect property price , illicit crime or organised crime in our community . all of that affect each and every one of the constituent of Members up and down the country . the financial cost of global tax evasion , enable by a lack of transparency in our territory and dependency , be staggering to contemplate . Tax Justice find that 35 % of global tax loss suffer by country around the world occur in the UK and its network of overseas territory and Crown dependency . that be a shameful statistic . the lack of transparency in offshore jurisdiction facilitate myriad other illicit activity at great cost to our country . company base in overseas territory have enable corruption case to the tune of £ 250 billion . notably , an astonishing 92 % of those be register in the british Virgin Islands . for context , £ 250 billion be more than the whole of the UK ' s foreign aid budget for the past 20 year . that money be go unaccounted for , when it could be work for our community . with war rage in Europe and the middle east , and contemplate the revelation the House hear early about organise attempt by the russian FSB to interfere in UK election , it be clear that the threat be grow . the cross - party Foreign Affairs Committee have rightfully call for public register as a " matter of national security " . increasingly , I believe that the risk to the UK ' s international reputation be grow . our reputation have already be substantially damage . it be in the public interest for the Minister to tell we what he be go to do as a matter of urgency to deal with this grow threat . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant time for the debate and I congratulate the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) on secure it . as member will know , there be many function of beneficial ownership , both licit and illicit . regardless of the legality of the arrangement , it go without say that a public register of these beneficial ownership would play a vital role in combat tax evasion and other such unlawful activity — we can all agree with that . it be the desire of everyone in this House and of the government of the overseas territory that we work towards well transparency , to ensure these island and territory be no long associate with be tax haven and hotbed of illegal financial activity . place , include the overseas territory , do not want to be consider as such . when people from those place travel , their experience be cloud by comment they receive from other about how they harbour terrorist money or be all money launderer . that be simply unfair . many of the territory have already demonstrate progress in the fight against money laundering and tax evasion , none more so than the Cayman Islands . People may know that I have some link with the Cayman Islands . I do not have a bank account there , but I have many friend there and I have be involve in environmental matter in the country . the Cayman Government take the fight against illicit finance very seriously . in 2019 , they be among eight territory commit to introduce a publicly accessible register by the end of the year . progress have be make : draft proposal be initially publish in 2021 and a consultation begin shortly after . aside from the implementation of the register , the Cayman Islands have make great stride in navigate the complex intersection of transparency , governance and international standard , and it be worth bring those to light so that they may serve as an example for other oversea territory and Crown dependency , and provide member with some hope that they be play their part . for example , the Cayman Islands operate tax co - operation agreement with over 100 country , include participation in the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act . the Cayman Islands follow the common reporting standard — a global standard set by the OECD and advocate by the G20 nation . the progress make by the Cayman Islands have be recognise by the financial action taskforce , which confirm that its anti - money laundering regime effectively deter and prosecute financial crime in the territory , and by his Majesty ' s Government for effective implementation of its russian sanction taskforce , Operation Hektor . I know that russian finance be of particular concern to many member . it be worth note that Operation Hektor have so involve the deregistration of more than 50 vessel and aircraft and the freezing of account worth approximately $ 8 . 32 billion and € 230 . 1 million . that go to show that there be many effective way in which the overseas territory can tackle illicit finance operate in their jurisdiction . back in 2020 , Ministers be clear that the introduction of comprehensive public register would be a considerable ask for many overseas territory , particularly those that do not possess any exist company beneficial ownership register . it be worth point out that the Cayman Islands have , since 2017 , maintain an electronic register of beneficial ownership information for all corporate and legal entity . any such arrangement in the island be verify and update by authorise corporate service provider , which then pass on the information to UK law enforcement within 24 hour , under the exchange - of - note agreement establish in 2017 . that say , complexity arise with the proviso that public accessibility be at an accept international standard , particularly among EU member state . as member be aware , and as my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) mention , the 2022 ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union state that unrestricted public access to beneficial ownership information be incompatible with the right to private life . we may not be in the European Union any more , but the sentiment of many of those ruling remain . I know that , follow that ruling , many territory seek legal and constitutional advice on the impact . perhaps the Minister could provide his own assessment of the ruling , and tell we how he be work with territory to counteract it and ensure the smooth transition to public register . I know that government of the overseas territory and dependency will be listen closely to this debate . I have no doubt of their commitment to provide the transparency need . I also trust that many member present , and the Government , will appreciate the work that have already be undertake . I will call Marie Rimmer and then Meg Hillier . you must sit down by half - past 4 , so perhaps you can divide the time between you . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) for secure the debate . our country , with its Crown dependency and overseas territory , be responsible for 35 % of global tax loss . the UK tax gap be estimate by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to be worth £ 36 billion . those billion of pound could be spend help our NHS or fix our school ' leak roof , but sadly , they be instead prop up Putin and his crony as they try to destroy Ukraine . the past year have put a spotlight on dirty money launder and hide here , yet that problem have be around for year . we must act now to ensure that we be not indirectly responsible for horror continue to occur by fail to tackle dirty money , be it in London , the british Virgin Islands or one of our other territory . we have a duty to the people of Ukraine to do our bit . we have hear many time from the Dispatch Box about how much support we be rightly give to Ukraine , but the Government must press our Crown dependency and overseas territory , which be the Russians ' laundromat of choice , to do the same . Transparency International have identify 237 case of corruption enable by company base in the overseas territory . those case be worth an astonishing £ 250 billion , which be divert via rig procurement , bribery , embezzlement and the unlawful acquisition of state asset . all those case pass through company register in our overseas territory . the presidential family of the Republic of Congo have enrich themselves to the sum of at least £ 500 million by complete dodgy oil deal through company base in Anguilla , all while the Congo sit in billion of pound of debt . of all the case , 92 % of those be register in the british Virgin Islands . the scale of the financial damage cause by those company be £ 196 billion , which be great than the UK ' s foreign aid budget over the past 20 year . we in this House often talk about our responsibility to the world and to mankind , and about our duty to help the world ' s poor — that be why we believe in foreign aid — yet monumental sum be be rob from country around the world by despot and dictator and then store in our territory . our duty to the world require we to do more to crack down on it . quite frankly , every time there be a series of leak — from the Panama paper and the Paradise Papers to the " Cyprus Confidential " dossier — it be an embarrassment to our country , and it be not go away . as have be set out , one of the most effective way to crack down on the problem be with public register of who own the company in our overseas territory and Crown dependency . there have be enough talk about crack down on tax avoidance for decade ; it be now time for realistic and pragmatic action for good . fraud , tax and sanction avoidance , and other economic crime can be crack down on only if it be possible to follow the money . the Government can not expect law enforcement to crack down on tax avoidance if it be not give the tool it need to do it . we can do it and we have say we will do it , so we should get on and do it ! public register can also help to restore public faith in the tax system by help to expose the high level of aggressive tax avoidance and evasion that we know take place . in the long term , public register can contribute to create a fair and less lopsided tax system . that allow the Government of the day to collect tax effectively , and fairly invest in our public service and infrastructure . public register of beneficial ownership be a sensible transparency measure , with broad cross - party support . the Government have repeatedly express their support for establish public register , but we be still wait for they to be set up . they be suppose to be set up by the end of 2023 . this situation can not go on . the Foreign Secretary need to get this over the line . we need to be able to identify who the true owner of offshore wealth be . we need to be able to uphold the law and make sure that tax be pay . we need to remove the veil of secrecy that , sadly , exist in too many of our territory and dependency . it be a pleasure to follow the passion of my hon . friend the Member for St Helens South and Whiston ( Ms Rimmer ) . I have be on this journey with my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) since I serve on the Public Accounts Committee when she be chair it — shockingly , it be now 10 year on from that . we begin to deal with some of the domestic issue with company that have international footprint — the large company such as Starbucks , which we have before the Committee . I remember that rollercoaster ride and my right hon . friend should be congratulate on that work . let we be clear what the impact of the lack of beneficial ownership register be . other have touch on security , but I wish to talk about the tax that be lose . we be in a cost of living crisis , there be a huge pressure on the Exchequer and we have an election loom , with each party that be likely to be in government want to make promise to the electorate . this money be be hide away without people know where it be and that be definitely have an impact on the tax take ; it be an absolute opportunity for tax avoidance and tax evasion , in particular , and it be key that we have this register . in my constituency , a lot of property be own by offshore company , some of they in the overseas territory , and it be impossible for the resident of those building to know who their landlord truly be ; they face an address with no name attach , and no response come from those landlord . it be against natural justice for people who have their home own by other as finance vehicle not to be able to have access to they . we need to make sure that this issue be deal with , because if we do not deal with the issue of money laundering and economic crime across the piece , and we deal with they only domestically , without a strategy for the overseas territory and Crown dependency , there be a risk that the problem will simply move , rather than be resolve . People with money and advice about where to hide it , if they be minded to hide it , will find way to do that where those way exist . this loophole need to be close and we have a prime opportunity , with the Foreign Secretary , the very person who , as Prime Minister , be back that a decade ago , now sit in the House of Lords and at the Cabinet table . he could be drive this , so I urge the Minister to speak up for his new boss . I hope that the Minister have be give the go - ahead to give we some comfort today that this issue will finally be revolve . there be only a few week until the end of the year , and I hope he can give we some comfort on the timeline . thank you for your co - operation . for the first wind - up , I call Richard Thomson . let I begin by share the disappointment of the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) that this debate be necessary at all . it be incredibly disappointing that the target the UK Government have of ensure that by December 2023 — the month we be in — public register be set up for the overseas territory and Crown dependency look set to be miss . this debate ought to start , as in fairness it have , from a fundamental premise : public register of beneficial ownership be a vital tool in help to identify and therefore reduce financial crime , and to increase financial transparency . the simple fact of know who own what , who benefit from it , and where the money have flow from and be flow to all help to identify and tackle crime of all sort , include corruption , drug trafficking and people traffic , as well as domestic and international tax evasion and tax avoidance . be able to get this under control would be massively to our collective benefit , and not just from a reputational point of view , because the revenue , money and asset that be conceal in this way can be use to fund activity that be detrimental to national security . it would also be massively to the benefit of the rest of the world to close down option for kleptocratic " businesspeople " or politician to strip asset from their country and squirrel they away in untransparent jurisdiction to enrich their lifestyle . that be clearly not a good thing , and the people of those country suffer as a consequence of that permissive environment . register be a necessary but insufficient step , and there be a lot of work to be do , not just on this issue . we have hear about London ' s unenviable reputation as the laundromat — I think that term be use — for some of the world ' s dirty money . I remember participate in a debate early in my parliamentary career about similar issue that be cause by London be the laundromat for reputational issue , through the prevalence of libel tourism , the ability to use slapp — strategic lawsuit against public participation — and the prevalence of public affair and public relation agency that be willing to accept money to do such thing . there be much work to be do to clean up the United Kingdom ' s act in that sense . although the UK Government introduce a register of beneficial ownership in 2016 and have encourage the Crown dependency and overseas territory to follow suit , they have not do that , so far at least , despite voluntarily agree to do so . that be despite the UK Government use the sweet persuasion of publish a draft order in Council as long ago as in 2020 to require they to do so and give they a deadline of this month , which now seem almost certain to be miss . this be the fundamental point : if the UK wish to seek leadership on this issue , it can not be take seriously as a world leader on financial transparency if it do not do more , and be not see to do more , to stop overseas territory be use as haven for individual to evade their obligation . it matter very much that that should happen . More than half of the shell company expose in the Panama paper be incorporate in UK tax haven . More than two third of the company analyse by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists from the Panama paper leak be find to be register in the british Virgin Islands . the UK and its overseas jurisdiction be collectively responsible , through that permissiveness , for cost the rest of the world nearly $ 90 billion in lose tax each year by enable non - resident to hide their finance and avoid tax . as the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) highlight , Tax Justice UK estimate that the UK and its network of overseas territory and Crown dependency be responsible for some 35 % of global tax loss suffer by country around the world . the impact that clamp down on this problem could have , not just on the public good for the UK but in many other country around the world , be highly significant . we be often invite to believe that the big threat to our quality of life — [ interruption . ] excuse I . [ interruption . ] thank you very much . I thank Mr Doughty for provide a cup of water , in the spirit of the Lib - Lab pact . lib ? well , it show that there be perhaps a future for progressive alliance of one kind or another , Mr Deputy Speaker . maybe on cup of water . yes . we be regularly invite to believe that the great threat to our public service and our quality of life come not from a lack of resource , but from immigration . indeed , the govern party be tear itself to bit today over the difficulty that it have set itself in pursuit of the vote of those they believe might be influence by such sentiment . I can not help but feel that we would be in a significantly well place if only the Government put half the effort into clamp down on the opportunity for tax avoidance , evasion and lack of transparency as they put into tell we that there be a problem about boat . the three country that rank high in the corporate tax haven index 2021 , compile by the Tax Justice Network , be the british Virgin Islands , the Cayman Islands and Bermuda , which be not an accolade to be proud of . where a score of 100 be the most permissive system and zero be the least permissive , the UK itself score a less than clever 69 . Greece score 46 . 4 , but seven of the eight territory that score a perfect 100 — I use the word " perfect " advisedly — be british overseas territory or Crown dependency . the UK Government and the territory Governments hold a joint ministerial council in November , but there have be no statement . will the Minister update the House on the progress that have be make ? how will that affect the December deadline ? in 2014 the Foreign Secretary , who be then Prime Minister , make a number of stride forward in address this issue . we on the Opposition Benches be struggle with many thing , include my voice , but we can see the benefit that come from Lord Cameron ' s appointment . on these matter , we very much hope that he be able to pick up where he leave off when he demit office as Prime Minister . if not the clock , certainly my voice be tell I that it be probably time to wind thing up . do the hon . Gentleman agree that ensure we have open and transparent register of beneficial ownership be only the first step in deal with what be a very well establish , very difficult and grow threat ? in short , yes , I do . the register be necessary , although they be not sufficient by themselves . clearly , a great deal more work need to be do . I commend the right hon . member for Barking for her clarity and leadership on this issue . next time we discuss it , I hope we will be discuss how the register be be implement and the benefit they bring . this have be a hugely useful debate on the implementation of public register of beneficial ownership in the UK ' s overseas territory and Crown dependency . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) for secure this crucial debate and for her tireless and unrelenting work on combat illicit finance , fight for transparency and oppose corruption . as shadow Minister for the overseas territory , I draw attention to my declaration of interest . we have hear some important , passionate speech , not least from my right hon . friend . the campaigning motivation behind her speech have be clear and transparent in what she have attempt to achieve over many year , as many hon . and right hon . colleague have reflect on . important point have be make , include by my hon . friend the Members for Mitcham and Morden ( Siobhain McDonagh ) and for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , on one of the key reason for transparency , which be understanding who own building , for example , and in what way they own they . I have have the same experience in my Cardiff South and Penarth constituency , with many resident affect by fire and building safety issue have difficulty establish who be the freeholder and how the ownership be structure . in an equally passionate speech , my hon . friend the Member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) clearly expose why this matter in so many different regard . my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch also explain the importance to the public purse of deal with these matter . my hon . friend the Member for St Helens South and Whiston ( Ms Rimmer ) make an equally passionate speech about why this matter to our effort against Russia and its illegal and barbarous war in Ukraine , and in relation to our responsibility elsewhere in the world , include in Africa and many other location . we hear strong comment from the Father of the House , as well as from my hon . friend the Member for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) , the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) and the hon . member for Hendon ( Dr Offord ) . the Chair of the Justice Committee , the hon . member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , also make important point on the constitutional position of the Crown dependency . I be no expert on the different legal opinion that have be express on that matter , but I have certainly have it put to I clearly by representative of the Crown dependency . as Labour ' s shadow Minister for the UK overseas territory , I want to begin by reiterate our unwavering commitment to each member of our global british family , their sovereignty and their right to self - determination . we be committed to a respectful but candid , productive but principled partnership between the UK and each territory , and the same be true in many respect of the Crown dependency . it be a pleasure to meet the premier , Chief Ministers and representative of each overseas territory early this month during the week of the joint ministerial council and to hear their insight , concern and perspective on issue from security to sovereignty , climate change to infrastructure , and constitutional relationship to this very issue of financial service and beneficial ownership . as I have say in previous debate , we need to be careful that we do not pursue misconception about the overseas territory and Crown dependency . each territory and dependency be distinctive and unique . many of the overseas territory do not engage in financial service , and this debate apply less to they . we must also recognise that step have be take and that there have be progress in some area . indeed , reference be make to the public register of beneficial ownership in Gibraltar , to the exchange of note agreement , which have exist since 2017 , and to a number of other step that have be take . I also want to acknowledge — I have discuss this with they over the last two year — that a number of the overseas territory , and indeed Crown dependency , have be integral to effort on freeze russian state and other asset since the onset of Putin ' s illegal and barbarous war in Ukraine . however , Labour believe that be part of the british family come with clear responsibility . we share common value , obligation and principle , include a robust commitment to democracy , the rule of law and liberty , and the protection of human right . we also believe in the advancement of good governance and in ensure proper democratic accountability and regulation , which of course include transparency in financial service . the 2018 Foreign Affairs Committee report be refer to , and I note the comment in it and comment make today about the interdependence between proper regulation and transparency and our wide national security and foreign policy objective . that be why we must respond to the call make by my right hon . friend the Member for Barking and many other today for we to tackle these issue by urgently bring about the full implementation of public register of beneficial ownership in the UK ' s overseas territory and , I hope , Crown dependencie . sadly , action on economic crime have be hold back by year of conservative delay and dither . as have be reference , we be first promise a register of overseas ownership by Lord Cameron in 2016 , and it beggar belief that we be still debate how it should be implement . section 51 of the Sanctions and Anti - Money Laundering Act 2018 require the Secretary of State " no later than 31 December 2020 " to " prepare a draft order in Council require the government of any british Overseas Territory that have not introduce a publicly accessible register of the beneficial ownership of company within its jurisdiction to do so . " yet here we be in 2023 . we should also remember the Economic Crime ( Transparency and Enforcement ) Act 2022 , which be pass as emergency legislation in the light of the situation in Ukraine and the need to sanction russian state entity and other involve in the invasion . its primary purpose include set up a register of overseas entity and their beneficial owner and require overseas entity that own land in the UK to register in certain circumstance . we have repeatedly be clear that overseas entity should not be able to hide behind trust , and it be important to explain why that matter . a recent article by Advani , Poux and Summers from the London School of Economics tell we that " 63 per cent of case where beneficial ownership be not publicly report " involve " the use of trust " . it also state : " the Crown Dependencies and Overseas Territories be … heavily implicate here . over 85 per cent of all trust arrangement come from … Jersey ( 32 per cent ) , Guernsey ( 25 per cent ) , British Virgin Islands ( 17 per cent ) and Isle of Man ( 11 per cent ) . " Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine only highlight why we need to see who own what and in a way that be transparent and publicly available . we have make clear time and again the need to bring forward much - need reform to Companies House , alongside a review of the register of overseas entity , to ensure that the right balance be strike between privacy and the public interest , include our ability , for example , to apply sanction effectively . here in the UK I be afraid we have be play a game of catch - up . we need to move forward in that respect , work co - operatively with the overseas territory and the Crown dependency , but take action if it have not yet be forthcoming . the view of the british public be clear . the result of a poll for the UK Anti - Corruption Coalition show that 72 % of the british public believe that the Government should take more responsibility , work with offshore financial centre to tackle money laundering and tax evasion . that will require the opening up of corporate registry to public scrutiny , and for the end - of - year deadline to be meet as a matter of priority . we be see , as never before , a confluence of the need to ensure good governance across financial centre and our own national security . let I ask the Minister some question . first , will the deadline be meet — yes or no ? if not , what do the FCDO and the wide Government consider to be a reasonable deadline , and what will be do to meet it ? can he clarify the position in relation to the Crown dependency in particular , give the comment that have be make today ? obviously I have see the statement that they have make about come forward with a public commitment — I think that be the phrase — in relation to their approach to access to information on register of beneficial ownership by the end of December 2023 , to replace the 2019 commitment . I be pleased to read the Joint Ministerial Council ' s communiqu é , which say that " the Overseas Territories and the UK … will be establish a technical working group on beneficial ownership … and … the implementation of publicly accessible register " . what be happen about that , and what support be be give to small territory , in particular , to enable they to make progress ? what be the group do , and how will it move forward and actually deliver result ? after the November JMC , the Minister pledge that he would report to Parliament before the recess on the progress toward the deadline . be today that day , and can he provide a precise timeline ? could he also provide an update on the status of the draft order in Council and the circumstance in which it would be invoke ? will he tell we what percentage of business cover by the 2017 exchange of note agreement be be cover now ? I understand that in 2019 it be 87 % ; be it now 100 % , as promise ? at what speed be the information be exchange ? the Cayman Islands have tell we that it do it within 24 hour ; be that timeline the same in every single territory ? I hope that the Minister can answer those question today . we want to see progress as a matter of urgency , as part of a respectful , constructive but principled relationship with our overseas territory and Crown dependency . if the Minister can sit down by about two minute to 5 , that will allow Dame Margaret Hodge to sum up the debate . it be an honour to serve with you in the Chair , Mr Deputy Speaker . I have not have a chance to say this in person until now , but thank you for your Christmas card . we know that Christmas be come , and it be always a joy . I be particularly grateful to the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) for secure the debate . I pay tribute to she for her work as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on anti - corruption and responsible tax , and for her tireless campaign on this vital issue over many year . she be respect on both side of the House for the work that she do . this debate have involve some of the most serious and seasoned parliamentarian , respect by I and , indeed , respect throughout the House — four dame , two knight and counting . a heavyweight group of people have make a serious contribution — and I do not say that lightly ; the calculation be make by one of my colleague . I be also grateful for the presence of the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) , who be probably soon to be right hon . or something , what with all the stuff that be go on . he lead on the Crown dependency in the Ministry of Justice and take a keen interest in the issue affect they and the overseas territory . another of the dame be also present on the Front Bench : my right hon . friend the Member for Cannock Chase ( Dame Amanda Milling ) , a very well - respect former overseas territory Minister . illicit finance be an active and grow threat to the national security of the UK family . there we have it — it have be say on both side of the House . I be not sure we need to say much more on that particular point , but it be serious . as set out early this year in the UK ' s second economic crime plan , illicit finance fuel serious and organised crime , threaten our institution and enable kleptocrat to establish a financial foothold . I recognise the important work of my noble friend the Foreign Secretary — just to reassure the right hon . member for Barking , I can feel the strength of his opinion on my shoulder right now . that also go for my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , who be the development Minister and Minister for Africa , and my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) , who be the Security Minister . I think they be well known to the right hon . Lady , and the strength of their opinion be know to she and the House , and to many other too . this be an important and serious debate . the UK overseas territory and Crown dependency have a history of work together as partner to strengthen our economic defence against illicit finance . publicly accessible register of beneficial ownership be an essential tool in that fight . we want great transparency , and we be work hard to deliver it . as have be say , the UK implement our own register in 2016 , the first of its kind in the world . the Sanctions and Anti - Money Laundering Act 2018 set out Parliament ' s desire for the overseas territory to introduce register , and in response , all the inhabit territory and Crown dependency make public commitment to do so . the UK welcome those commitment as demonstration of our joint desire to meet the high standard in tackle illicit finance . in 2020 we set out in write ministerial statement our expectation that the territory and dependency would implement register by the end of this year , and include a draft order in Council . we then provide technical assistance and support , and we see ot make significant progress . for instance , BVI be able to pass appropriate primary legislation in 2022 and the Cayman Islands in 2023 , and the cd have also take a set of preparatory step — [ interruption . ] bless you — it could be catch . it will not have escape member ' notice that only Gibraltar currently have an operational register , as be highlight by my hon . friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , the Chair of the Justice Committee . the other thing be that , as those who be follow the calendar have note , there be only three week to go until the end of 2023 . let I be absolutely clear : this be not where the UK Government want the ot and cd to be . in November last year the Court of Justice of the European Union issue a ruling pertaining to publicly accessible register , which change the international context . the judgment find that an EU requirement to implement publicly accessible register be contrary to the EU charter of fundamental right . the UK be , however , satisfied with the lawfulness of our own publicly accessible register , and we continue to believe that cd and ot could legally implement public register of their own . not only that , but no few than 14 EU member state allow public access to their beneficial ownership register even after the November court ruling . that should provide a direction of travel and a sense of security . we have be in intense discussion with the territory and dependency since spring — it have be a huge priority for I in recent month , since my appointment as Minister for the overseas territory — to set out the rationale for our view that the register can indeed be fully implement in line with the privacy right that apply to each of they . Montserrat , the Falkland Islands , St Helena , Ascension , Tristan da Cunha and Pitcairn have confirm that they be continue to implement theirs , follow in the footstep of Gibraltar , which introduce its own in 2020 . however , Anguilla , Bermuda , the british Virgin Islands , the Cayman Islands and the Turks and Caicos Islands , along with the Crown dependency , continue to have concern in the light of the court ruling . give the differ view on the ruling , we be work together to find way to make positive progress , include by discuss an interim step that would make significant progress towards commitment to improve corporate transparency : the implementation , next year , of publicly accessible register of beneficial ownership with a legitimate interest access filter . that would allow access to beneficial ownership information for member of the public with a legitimate interest , such as medium and civil society organisation involve in the fight against illicit finance and money laundering . it would also bring the territory and dependency in line with the EU , as the european court judgment note that EU member state must continue to enable access to those with legitimate interest . rise — I will make one more point and then I will gladly give way . the right hon . member for Barking raise an issue regard request by Transparency International to HMRC . I can not comment on individual case , but if she write to I , I will follow it up . to be clear , the Government ' s policy be that , by definition , legitimate interest should include civil society organisation such as Transparency International . the legitimate public interest filter , as the Minister call it , stand or fall on how " legitimate public interest " be define . at the moment , it appear to be far too narrowly define , which undermine the purpose of the transparency . will he take into account the fact that the filter , as it exist , do not let any light through and be render the openness of the list moot ? that be not the intention . we want the light to shine on these issue . that will involve medium and non - governmental organisation too . I can give the hon . Lady that reassurance . rise — I will give way and then I will wind up very quickly . surely , the problem be that if the Minister be correct and any legitimate medium could make an inquiry , any citizen with a real interest could go to the medium and get the information that way . that must be know in opt for the filter , so presumably its purpose be only to be obstructive and to create legal barrier . the filter be fundamental to the EU ' s plan . we want this to be important in and of itself , and also a step on the journey to have full beneficial ownership register . that remain the case . I be conscious of time , but I want to assure the House that we be absolutely clear that we want to take this interim step far . we will continue active discussion . the majority of the five territory that we have talk about will sign up to the legitimate interest access filter , and we will continue to have discussion with other jurisdiction that need to do more . as I set out in my response to the right hon . member for Barking , I intend to update the House with full detail before Christmas , and I will lay a write ministerial statement on the outcome of the ongoing negotiation . we be continue far productive discussion with Crown dependency . in line with the overseas territory , we be recognise our different legal position follow the court judgment , but we be make our expectation clear that the register need to be implement during the course of next year . again , the Home Office will update Parliament before the recess on the outcome of those serious discussion , as we want to move forward . in conclusion , I would like to give our great friend in the overseas territory and Crown dependencie the message that we be determined and keen to achieve this important goal for we all . the train be leave the station . we know the direction of travel . it be time for all our friend in the overseas territory and cd to get on board . we will do all we can to support they , and it remain a clear priority . what have be great about this debate be that we mostly agree across the House . that have be the basis on which we have take action down the year , and I be grateful for that . I want to acknowledge the teamwork that have go on . the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) and for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) both play a key role in pursue transparency in the run - up to 2018 and beyond , before they become Ministers . transparency be just one tool in the fight against economic crime , corruption , and tax evasion and avoidance . I thank all the member who have take part in the debate . my hon . friend the Members for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) and for St Helens South and Whiston ( Ms Rimmer ) both mention the eye - watering sum of money that be lose to the legitimate system through tax avoidance , tax evasion and other way . may I thank everybody and finally say — motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . Violent Crime and Antisocial Behaviour : Carshalton and Wallington Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) may I begin by express how devastated I be that the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be not here to intervene on I ? I have hear that that be a staple of Adjournment debate , but I fear that I will miss out on the opportunity . nevertheless , I will soldier on and do what I can . I would like to address a grow concern in our community of Carshalton and Wallington : violent crime and antisocial behaviour , which demand our attention and be a huge concern to my constituent . I be delighted that my constituency neighbour , my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , be the Minister respond today , because he will know about many of these issue already . I be also delighted to be join by my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , who will know full well about some of the issue I plan to raise . I will start with a few recent example of violent crime and antisocial behaviour in the constituency . on 3 October , a man be fatally stab in Roundshaw , just a week after a tragic stabbing in the neighbouring borough of Croydon , which I know the Minister be aware of as the constituency MP for the area . that follow a number of recent attack , not all of which take place in my constituency — some occur in neighbour Croydon , include the tragic case of a 15 - year - old girl — involve several of the many teenager who have be kill on London ' s street in 2023 . each one be a tragedy . in Wallington , a man sustain a thankfully non - life - threaten chest wound and a woman suffer a hand injury in a knife attack on Birchwood Avenue last Saturday . I thank the police for their work . they always respond with the utmost professionalism , and they do a fantastic job . I also thank the air ambulance and NHS staff who care for the victim . however , such incident be of concern , because the London borough of Sutton , which include Carshalton and Wallington , have long enjoy a reputation as one of the safe in London , often compete with Richmond . violent crime be not something we be necessarily use to , so see it happen on our street over the course of the last few month be of real concern . like the inboxe of many of my colleague across the capital , my inbox be often full of correspondence from resident , concerned parent and other who feel vulnerable and unsafe because of the crime that be happen in their area . it must not be allow to continue . I vividly remember one constituent writing to I after the attack in Roundshaw to say that she do not feel safe enough to put her bin out in the dark . another ' s teenage daughter do not want to leave the house for fear of be attack . we must not let that become the new normal in London — or anywhere , for that matter . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . we have have the sad news of the fatal stabbing of a 17 - year - old boy outside Sutton station , and a 15 - year - old be recently kill in the Minister ' s town of Croydon . not only do we have to lean into knife crime , which be sometimes import into Sutton ; we also need to make sure that we can bring down the fear of crime . often it be import by gang , but it be really important that we can reassure people that the police be there and that we have a holistic view of knife crime in Sutton . absolutely ; I thank my hon . friend and constituency neighbour for that intervention . he be absolutely right about the need to bring down the fear of crime and introduce measure to do that , and I would like to hear more from the Minister about what step the Home Office be take in that respect . my hon . friend be absolutely right about provide reassurance , and I will go into that in a bit more detail . I pay tribute to he for his time as one of the long - serve Ministers for London , and for the work he do in this space . he have be a fantastic champion of his constituency and the capital , and he be a great loss to the Government , but I be pleased to have he back on the Back Benches help I to advocate for our fantastic borough of Sutton . on 30 October — just a few week ago — a 15 - year - old boy who be mind his own business be approach by another teenage boy , who lead he to a block of flat , where three other teenager arm with knife await . the young victim be rob of his phone . that incident be one of many that underscore the vulnerability of our youth and the audacity of those who will prey on our child . our child ' s mind should be free to explore and not be occupy with threat to their life , but , sadly , that be not an isolated incident . our community have witness rise in house break - in and people try car door . one of the most common thing that I see on social medium be Ring doorbell footage of people try car door or front door late at night in our community . that really make people feel violate and scare in their own home , and that can not be right . these doorbell camera deter crime in their own right . I often encourage my constituent to get they , because thankfully I have see many video where someone have clock a Ring doorbell camera and turn away from the house . that be fantastic , but it be awful how often such footage come up on social medium . another fairly distressing incident be that of a four - year - old child who be slap at a bus stop just a couple of week ago . though detail be still emerge , and I do not want to prejudice investigation in any of the case I raise , that incident underscore the urgency with which we must tackle the root cause of knife crime and antisocial behaviour in our community . no child , no parent and no person should be leave with the weight of that trauma or leave feel unsafe in their own community . in our area in the last year , theft be up by 31 % , sexual offence be up by 43 % and robbery be up by 58 % . those statistic be alarming — and more so because they be not part of a national trend . across the whole of the United Kingdom , crime have fall since 2010 — the Minister will want to expand on the Government ' s record in bring crime down — so we must ask ourselves why it be only within London that we do not see that trend be play out . some responsibility — in fact , I would argue quite a lot — must rest on the shoulder of the police and crime commissioner for London , who also happen to be the Mayor of London . we have see London benefit from the massive increase in police officer — we meet our manifesto commitment of 20 , 000 new police officer , and 3 , 666 of those be work on the street of London — yet we see this worrying trend with crime level . even just this past week , the Mayor of London be catch out mislead Londoners on statistic about crime in London . he may not be prepared to put the work in and would rather spend his time jet off around the world try to sell his book , legalise weed or whatever it be he be interested in do other than get on with his job . however , we can not leave criminal to take over the street of London , so I would really like to understand what work the Home Office be do with the Metropolitan police to recapture the trust of Londoners and get on with the job of deter and catch criminal , ensure that our constituent — those of the Minister and my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam , and mine — be keep safe . I absolutely welcome the increase in police number , but we face unique challenge on the fringe of London , from which a significant number of officer be regularly transfer away for major event in central London , where help be need for police , leave only a minimal presence in outer London . I would like to hear a bit more from the Minister on the work that he be do in the Home Office with the Metropolitan police to address that promptly so that when big event happen in central London , neighbourhood and local policing in outer London do not suffer . collaboration between the police and local community be also paramount , and policing be only half the battle . I absolutely want to continue advocate for an increase police presence . we all want to see bobby back on the beat , and it be great to see those new police officer get out there in our community and do just that , but we must also tackle the cause of crime and antisocial behaviour along the way . education be a crucial step in do that . we have see how that have work in other part of the world , and even here in the United Kingdom . Glasgow be once the most violent city in the whole of Europe . it take a different approach to violent crime , and have turn that reputation around and drive down that number . in London , we be promise a violence reduction unit that would tackle knife crime in a similar way , yet we have see no result from that violence reduction unit . there be little transparency about who sit on it and what work they be do , whether they have meet , what they have speak about and when they meet . the violence reduction unit for London have not achieve anything because , as I say early , London be not follow the national trend for crime at the moment . the challenge that we face be daunt , but the spirit of our community be always resilient . we must do all that we can to tackle violent crime and anti - social behaviour and reclaim the safety and security of my constituent in Carshalton and Wallington , and across the whole of London . we need to ensure that we have a constant and visible police presence on the street of Sutton . we need to ensure that people be aware of the consequence of criminal activity , and educate they to prevent their turning to crime in the first place , particularly our young people . I will not stop raise these issue , and nor will my hon . friend , because until no one live in fear , our community thrive , and people value and protect each other , we will not have achieve our aim . it be a pleasure to respond to my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Elliot Colburn ) . I congratulate he on secure this Adjournment debate , and on his extremely powerful and eloquent speech , which further his tireless campaign on this issue , often in partnership with his constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , who have contribute already this evening . this be an incredibly important topic . I say that not just as the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire , but as the constituency neighbour , on the other side , of my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington . I be a fellow south - London MP , so I , too , see at first hand the effect of knife crime and serious violence on our community . in particular in Croydon , but I think across all of south London , we feel for the family of Elianne Andam , the 15 - year - old girl who be brutally murder on the morning of 27 September . the whole community be incredibly move and mourn her loss . I go to her funeral with many other . about 1 , 000 people attend that funeral , just a few week ago . it have a profound impact on the whole borough , and more widely across south London , and we all need to redouble our effort to end the scourge of knife crime and serious violence . although serious violence be down by 25 % over the last four year , and even though homicide have reduce this year compare with last year and be low than it be in 2010 , every single death , and every single incident of serious violence or homicide , be an individual tragedy , and we need to do more to get the figure down even far . on the Government ' s work in this area , we have deliver record police number , with 149 , 566 across England and Wales — more police than we have ever have before . that include more police than we have ever have across London , in the Metropolitan Police . however , as my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington point out , the Mayor of London , Sadiq Khan , as London ' s police and crime commissioner , have be pretty deficient in manage the police force . although there be record number in the Met thank to Government funding , there could have be an extra 1 , 089 officer . government funding be available to recruit those officer to the Met , but the Mayor of London , thank to his ineptitude , fail to recruit they . Knife crime in London have also increase on his watch . he shamefully make a claim to the contrary and be publicly rebuke by the Office for National Statistics for make misleading claim . clearly , the Mayor of London need to do a lot more to tackle knife crime . let I set out some of the thing that the Government be do in this area . one of they be fund violence reduction unit across the 20 police force area where violent crime be the most serious . those violence reduction unit , which be manage by the police and crime commissioner but be fund by the Government , be design to make early intervention to identify people — often young people — who be on the wrong track and try to put they on the right track , whether that be through educational intervention , social service work , sporting activity or whatever it may be . we intend to continue support and expand the work of violence reduction unit , support by the Youth Endowment Fund , which have receive £ 200 million of Government money . we also want to stop the supply of knife get on to our street in the first place . that be why we be legislate , both through the Criminal Justice Bill and through secondary legislation , to : ban certain zombie knife and machete that be currently legal ; double the sentence for sell knife to under - 18 ; and give the police additional power to seize legal knife that be hold in private if they think those knife be go to be use for criminal purpose . as for sell knife online , the Online Safety Act 2023 — which receive Royal Assent just a few week ago — will , when fully in force , require online marketplace such as Facebook Marketplace to proactively prevent the sale of illegal knife online , again choke off the supply of those knife into our community . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to three people ? first , Ray and Vi Donovan be an incredible couple live in my constituency who help bring a knife bin to the centre of Sutton — some truly horrific thing have be find in that knife bin , but thankfully , they be off the street . secondly , as the Minister mention the Online Safety Act , will he join I in congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , who be the Minister who take that Act through Parliament in its final stage and manage to secure that important measure to stop knife be sell ? I certainly join my hon . friend in pay tribute to his constituent and their work on the knife bin — we need to have more of those around — and my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam do indeed take the Online Safety Bill through its concluding stage in the House of Commons . I be involve in an early stage of that Bill ' s passage , but he be the Minister who , after a number of year and a number of Ministers , get it over the line . it be also important to take action on the street , and although it sometimes attract controversy , stop and search be an important way of get knife off our street . each month , the Metropolitan police take about 400 knife off the street through stop and search , which be an important part of the police ' s arsenal when do lawfully and respectfully . I would like to see the police be more proactive , use stop and search more — use it more confidently and more widely — to get those knife off the street . some people raise concern about disproportionality , but if we look at the success rate for find knife or drug on those people who be stop and search , the percentage of stop and search result in a find of knife or drug — which be typically between 25 % and 28 % — be virtually exactly the same across all ethnic group . that suggest that allegation that the police be behave unfairly be without foundation , so I would like to see stop and search use more . the Home Office be also invest in the development of technology that will be able to covertly scan for knife as people walk down the street . that technology be a year or so away from be deployable , but it be something we be invest in , and it be something I would like to see deploy on our street . we be also invest in hotspot patrolling : through a project call Grip , hotspot patrol take place in area where serious violence be a particular problem . we be also run antisocial behaviour hotspot patrol in some force area . those hotspot patrol will be roll out across the whole country from next April — we find that where they take place , antisocial behaviour and serious violence drop noticeably , so we be go to be increase funding for hotspot patrol across the country from April . finally , I draw the House ' s attention to the importance of catch perpetrator , and of use technology to do so . my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington mention the availability of CCTV footage these day : a lot of image be now available , whether that be CCTV footage from shop or local authority , Ring doorbell in people ' s house , dashcam footage or footage take on mobile phone . the facial recognition algorithm that the police can run , which take an image of a criminal commit a crime from any of those thing — CCTV , mobile phone and so on — and run it through the police database , can now produce remarkably accurate match even when the image be not particularly clear . I therefore urge all police force to redouble their effort to always run those image through the police national database and to do the facial recognition search . the evidence so far suggest that many perpetrator who would previously not have be catch now can be catch use retrospective facial recognition , which be what I have describe . I thank again my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington for secure this debate . it be a really important topic not just in south London or London more widely , but across the whole country . a lot of progress have be make , but there be more to do . every single injury or death be a tragedy and all of we in Parliament and in Government must work together with the police and other to ensure that we do everything humanly possible to end the scourge of knife crime , which be far too frequent at the moment . question put and agree to . House adjourn .