Oral Answers to Questions Science , Innovation and Technology the Secretary of State be ask — AI in the NHS what recent discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care on increase the use of AI in the NHS . the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology closely engage with all Departments on the adoption of AI , include the Department of Health and Social Care , and we be commit to ensure that the adoption of AI be do in an ethical , safe and responsible way . that include use AI to improve public service outcome and productivity in the NHS . ahead of the AI Safety Summit last year , we announce a new AI in healthcare fund , back by £ 100 million , to target area where the rapid deployment of AI could create transformational breakthrough . I thank my hon . friend for his answer . without doubt , AI offer an opportunity to innovate regard medical diagnostic . what discussion be he have with colleague from the Department of Health and Social Care to ensure that the next generation of clinical scientist , include radiologist and pathologist , gain the right skill to make full use of AI ? I thank my hon . friend for that important question . ensure that the UK ' s life science sector can grow and access the variety of skill it need to support innovation , include the adoption of AI , be a key commitment of the life science vision . to deliver that we be work cross - Government , include with the Department for Education and DHSC , industry and academia , to ensure that our ecosystem can deliver and attract interdisciplinary talent . the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care and her Department be also work to ensure that the NHS can take advantage of the opportunity that AI represent for healthcare . in addition , DSIT be actively represent on NHS England ' s radiology and pathology board , where AI and skill be regularly discuss . the Health and Social Care Committee ' s report into the digital technology of the future clearly demonstrate the opportunity that sit before we if we get the basic right . AI be not only of use for increase productivity in diagnostic , but also when set treatment plan and in pharmacology . how be the Minister set out a strategic plan for how AI can be invest in the NHS for the future , as Labour have do with our " fit for the Future " plan ? the hon . Lady be right to say that AI can play a great role in improve the way we treat condition , provide that it be implement in an ethical , safe and responsible way . one great example of that be Brainomix , which be already be use in 37 NHS healthcare trust . it mean that the in / out time have be greatly reduce , and three time more people who previously would have not be able to live independently be now able to do so because of the use of AI . that be also be use in additional critical pathway , and lesson be learn . I know the NHS be work closely with DHSC to ensure that AI be use effectively . ai : regulation what step the Government be take to regulate AI . what step the Government be take to regulate AI . what step the Government be take to regulate AI . what step her Department be take to regulate artificial intelligence . in our White Paper on AI regulation we set out our ambitious pro - regulation , pro - innovation framework , outline five cross - sectoral principle to be apply by exist regulator . in February we publish our response , set out how we be support regulator to deliver the framework and strengthen our global AI leadership . that include new funding and guidance for our regulator , and we have establish a central risk function to support . yet we hear just a few month ago from the Prime Minister that the UK ' s answer be not to rush to regulate . the Competition and Markets Authority have be clear about the potential harm that unregulated AI could generate from bake in bias that affect certain demographic , and general purpose model that could get out of control . why have the Government drag their foot on safeguard for the most advanced AI model , or be the Secretary of State simply wait for the next Labour Government to control the new AI model ? Mr Speaker , this be absolute tosh . we have lead the world when it come to AI safety . we have set up a long - term process in the AI Safety Summit , and the next one will be in Seoul in just a few week . we have also set up the world ' s first AI Safety Institute , which be test both pre and post deployment . we have also be clear : we will not rush to legislate . we will grip the risk and well understand they , rather than produce out - of - date legislation as a gimmick . tomorrow the TUC will officially launch its Bill on AI regulation and employment right , which recognise that transparency , observability and explainability be all key element of a fair and just workplace . what will the Government do to ensure that AI do not lead to a weakening of worker ’ right ? we want to garnish the opportunity of AI for the british public , which include the comple - mentary aspect that it can pose for job , especially in teaching and medicine , by take away some of the admin and bureaucracy . we be also very realistic that technology always change labour market need . in 1940 , 60 % of the job we now have do not exist . that be why we have undergo a revolution in our skill system , include the launch of the lifelong learning entitlement next year . it be all very well the Government say that they will take their time over this response , but the point be that the Federation of Small Businesses be say that a regulatory framework be urgent , and Dr Rogoyski of the University of Surrey be point out that delay could mean the UK probably have no choice but to follow the approach of the US and Europe on AI regulation . can the Secretary of State set out exactly what the timeframe will be for regulation ? the hon . member be get confuse between regulation and legislation . we already have a plethora of regulation and world - lead regulator that we be support . we be clear in our White Paper response that we will legislate — as will every nation around the world — but we want to get that legislation right . she comment on the US ' s approach . we be work hand in glove with the US , and I sign the world ' s first memorandum of understanding on AI institute just a few week ago . what assessment have the Government make of the United Nation ' s plan to internationally regulate artificial intelligence ? what be the implication for UK sovereign security ? the UK Government be commit to unlock the opportunity of AI , while mitigate the risk . that require both domestic and international action . the UK be a lead voice internationally , have host the AI Safety Summit , which deliver the world - first Bletchley declaration , as well as actively participate at the UN . that include our proactive role shape UNESCO recommendation on AI ethic . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . the Secretary of State know that lead AI developer be expect imminently to release new , more sophisticated AI model . can she confirm that our AI Safety Institute have have access to those model , as be agree at Bletchley Park ? be it the case that the developer have make change to their model where they have be request by the institute ? I know that my right hon . friend share my passion and enthusiasm for this topic , as well as a desire to make sure we grip the risk . our institute be the first in the world to be do pre and post - deployment testing , in line with the agreement we make at Bletchley Park . I can not get into the specific of which model we be test , as I be sure he will understand , as that be highly commercially sensitive information , but I can assure he and the House that where risk be find , we expect relevant action to be take . the responsibility of developer be to ensure that their model be safe , but the Government be commit to hold they to account . do my right hon . friend agree that spread good practice in this field be perhaps the most important thing ? for example , the health benefit of AI have already be mention , such as in the diagnosis of bowel cancer , and that be about promote the health of the public at large . those thing need to be push forward with urgency . it be not enough just to try to slow thing down and over - regulate . I absolutely agree . AI have the potential to be revolutionary , especially in area such as healthcare . that be why at the summit we announce a £ 100 million pot to accelerate some of our exist healthcare mission . we be work hand in hand with the Department of Health and Social Care on this important topic . I call the shadow Minister . AI be an incredible new technology , and it can help the NHS to save life , but there be also risk , such as the danger of deepfake . the Government have be warn about those risk , yet time and again Ministers have dither and delay , and the Government ' s failure to act be highlight in the Financial Times this week . have the Government run out of idea , or be they just scared of their own back Benchers ? as the hon . Member will know , we have the defend democracy taskforce , which be dedicate to this very subject and be lead by the Security Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge and Malling ( Tom Tugendhat ) . we as a team be actively participate in that , and we also work with social medium company and our international counterpart . it be something that I personally put on the agenda at the summit and that I have personally discuss in forum such as the G7 . the Deputy Prime Minister be also lead the way with his AI compact . there be no easy answer to this , but we be work in a conciliatory and speedy manner to ensure that we address all opportunity and answer . personal Data what step her Department be take to help protect the personal datum of individual . the Data Protection and Digital Information Bill before Parliament build on the high standard that we already have for personal datum protection . it strengthen and modernise the regulator so that it can enforce standard must more robustly , to protect people . we be look at what we can do to strengthen our cyber - resilience and data infrastructure all the time as new technology develop . I thank my hon . friend for that answer . it be clearly vital that the enormous amount of personal datum collect by Departments and private company be safeguard . I have receive a number of complaint about people ' s personal datum be abuse by company , and indeed about public sector datum be sell to company who then use it . just this weekend , our Greater London Authority candidate have his phone hack and his social medium destroy . that be equally important as a demonstration of what can happen to democracy when datum be abuse . will my hon . friend take further action to safeguard people ' s personal datum ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight that case . I regret what have happen to the GLA candidate , which highlight some of the risk in relation to technology . that be why we have high datum protection standard , but there be a range of way in which we need to tackle this problem . we have the national cyber strategy , which be work to ensure that we can deal with the cyber - threat we face . we be take measure to protect our data infrastructure and try to do thing to stop fraud in the national " stop ! think Fraud " strategy , as well as new law on security of device , such as connect device . we need to do a whole range of thing , but we need to keep make sure that we be vigilant about the risk . when my 91 - year - old mother die , I take on her landline for purely sentimental reason . for month and month after that , I keep get scam call offer all sort of dodgy product . do the Minister agree that the elderly almost more than anyone else must have their personal datum protect ? I be sorry to hear of that experience , which I be afraid be share by constituent across the country . that be why we have take new measure in the datum Bill to try to deal with scam call by try to ensure that we can see where those number be and take action by block they on bulk . I appreciate what the hon . Member say ; it be something that we must tackle . I call the shadow Minister . we be tell that this be the general election year . in other country , we already see those who want to manipulate democracy use AI to scrape together personal detail , include someone ' s face and voice , allow they to falsify candidate ’ view . what the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) raise about the GLA candidate be pertinent . as we quickly approach the second half of the year — when we be tell the Prime Minister will finally call the election — will the Government commit to ensure that personal detail be protect for candidate , voter and , above all , democracy as a matter of urgency ? we absolutely share those concern . that be why we have a defend democracy taskforce work across every Department to look at the threat to our democracy . we face a substantial threat , and it be one that we must all be mindful of in how we conduct ourselves as candidate . AI , fake and the protection of datum be one element of that , but I assure the House that we be take a whole range of measure to ensure that the protection of the come general election be robust . I call the SNP spokesperson . individual ’ personal data be not safe in Tory hand . a recent article in the Guardian report that senior Tory party official plan to make million from sell off their own member ' datum through the " true Blue " app . if the Tory party be happy to sell off its own member ' personal datum , how can the public possibly have confidence that their datum be safe under the government ? the allegation that the hon . Lady have put forward be write in the Guardian , and I have not see they myself . I be preside over the datum Bill , and I have see no evidence to suggest that we be try to bring forward law that would do such a thing . Online Safety Act : implementation what step her Department be take to implement the Online Safety Act 2023 . Ofcom be the independent regulator of the Online Safety Act . the Government be work with it to implement the Act as quickly as possible , include the relevant secondary legislation . Ofcom be take a phase approach to bring the duty into effect and be consult on guidance and code of practice . offence around serious online abuse come into effect on 31 January this year . the Online Safety Act introduce many measure to keep child safe , but give the increase concern about child ' s online safety , do the Secretary of State agree that it be time to go even far and introduce a child - safe phone ? that would ensure that , at a minimum , all phone intend for child be properly fit with parental control to stop child access harmful content . the Government produce world - lead legislation on online safety , which put the onus on social medium company , not parent . I know that my right hon . friend have speak about information , which be particularly important to make it as easy as possible for parent . she raise an important about device - level control , and I assure she that I be listen not just to member of this House but to parent . yesterday , the Government finally back Labour ' s call and announce that they would make the creation of deepfake porn a criminal offence . however , it be disappointing that the Government continue to adopt an intent - base approach over one of consent in relation to these crime . why be minister prioritise a man ' s right to have banter over a woman ' s right to feel safe ? will the Government look at the regulation of AI app such as Nudify and ClothOff , which be freely available , easy to use and exist only to humiliate and violate woman ? I share the hon . member ' s passion in this area , which be why we put it in the Online Safety Act with regard to the sharing of that content . we have now go one step far , and be in the process of make it illegal to create that content in the first place . ai : impact on Democracy what assessment her Department have make of the potential impact of AI on democracy . the Government be clear that artificial intelligence be the define technology of our time , with the potential to transform humanity positively . we also recognise the challenge that AI can pose . as have be say , we be work to ensure that we respond to the full range of threat to our democratic process , include through the defend democracy taskforce . DSIT be engage with social medium platform , civil society group , academia and international partner to tackle the risk that AI can pose to democracy . in the long term , I agree that AI have enormous potential to support participation in politic , and we should seek to harness that . but in the short term , disinformation and deepfake , often put together by foreign actor , threaten to have the most immediate impact on democracy . what risk do the Minister believe AI pose to this year ' s election in particular , and what step be he take to alleviate those risk ? let I be very clear : the UK will not tolerate malicious cyber - activity that target our democratic institution . the Deputy Prime Minister have already come to this Dispatch Box and take definitive action where that have happen . the defend democracy taskforce and Government team be work collaboratively to ensure that we respond to threat to our democratic process , include digitally manipulate content . the Online Safety Act will force company to take proactive , preventive action against illegal , state - sponsor content online via the foreign interference offence , include deepfake and other AI - generate content within the scope of the Act . in two short sentence , will the Minister reassure we that AI will not destroy not just democracy , but the human race ? two sentence , Mr Speaker . I can confirm that the Government be take a proactive approach to AI . the defend democracy taskforce be work very hard to protect our democratic process . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I want the british people to be able to seize the extraordinary opportunity that AI offer , but that can happen only if we address the risk . at Bletchley Park we kick - start a global conversation and , since then , the Bletchley effect have see country from around the world collaborate on the development of safe , responsible and trustworthy AI . two week ago I sign an agreement with the United States to allow we to collaborate seamlessly on AI safety testing . last week we announce the date of the second AI Safety Summit in Seoul . we also remain laser - focus on implement the landmark Online Safety Act , which will make Britain the safe place to be online . last month we see the first sentencing under the cyber - flash offence that we bring in in January . a fast and reliable internet connection be vital for everyday life and so many local business . I conduct a broadband survey in East Devon , which show that some rural part of my constituency sadly still lag behind , such as Sidbury , Fluxton , Marsh Green and Talaton . what step be the Government take to ensure that broadband provider improve connection across our county ? I be glad to say that over 75 % of premise in my hon . friend ' s constituency can access gigabit - capable broadband . that be up from 6 % in 2019 , but we want to do more , so we have include mid and east Devon in our cross - regional framework for Project Gigabit . that be currently undertake pre - procurement market engagement . we hope to give he news very soon . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the first act of the Prime Minister be to promise a Government of professionalism and integrity , yet here we have a Secretary of State who use her position to accuse a british scientist of be a terrorist sympathiser . she go on to use public money to settle her libel case and then she try to cover up just how much taxpayer ' money she have waste . be those the action of someone with integrity and professionalism — yes or no ? as the Minister responsible for UK Research and Innovation , I be alert to a tweet by official in my Department , which state , " this be disturb " and to the comment : " Suella Braverman urge police to crack down on Hamas support in UK " , with no further context or wording . that be post by a representative of an equality , diversity and inclusion board that sit under UKRI . at the time , like many other , I be indeed concern and use the forum that the person use to alert UKRI to my concern . this be highlight use that medium , but on receipt of the letter , UKRI itself say that it be deeply concern and launch an investigation . WhatsApp can be very handy , but it can also be very dangerous . its end - to - end encryption mean that even the most vile illegal content , such as child sexual abuse , can not be police or prevent . give the obvious danger to child , do the Secretary of State agree that it be woefully irresponsible of Meta to reduce the age for use WhatsApp to 13 ? we be pro - innovation , but also pro - privacy . however , it be clearly not right for anyone to be expose on any service to harm such as sexual abuse , extortion or grooming . platform must have robust process in place to safeguard child , in line with the Online Safety Act 2023 . responsible encryption have an important role to play in protect privacy , but it should not compromise safety , and Ofcom will take robust action when that be compromise . at the Lords Science and Technology Committee , the Secretary of State say there have be no surveillance of academic in that case . what be the evidence , then , on which she base her decision to write to the UKRI chief executive ? I have answer that multiple time . an official alert I to those concern . I then see the tweet myself and ask the Department for further advice . the Kettering - base company in2tec be the only company in the world that can manufacture and completely recycle circuit board technology . the potential for it and for the UK be huge . will the Minister for Science , Research and Innovation be kind enough please to visit in2tec in Kettering to see this groundbreake innovation for himself ? in2tec be indeed a great example of innovation in sustainable electronic . I be pleased that it have benefit from £ 250 , 000 in UK support . it would be my pleasure to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency in Kettering , and I believe we have a date soon . follow the confidence and supply agreement with the previous Government , Northern Ireland should have virtually 100 % access to fibre broadband , which be a first in any of these island . do the Minister agree that Northern Ireland and other region in the UK should take full advantage of that broadband access to maximise employment opportunity across these island ? absolutely . the hon . Gentleman be right about the importance of gigabit broadband to the economy . I be very glad to say that 95 % of Northern Ireland have that access — the high percentage in the country . that be a tribute to the work do between central Government and the Northern Ireland Assembly . why should people live in rural area be second - class citizen when it come to mobile phone coverage ? we agree ; that be why we have the share rural network programme , which be deal with a lot of those notspot problem . black student study science , technology , engineering and math subject be leave education in great number . what be the Minister do to identify the challenge and help the progression of black student in STEM subject ? the Government be absolutely committed to expand STEM opportunity . a key way of do that be build mathematical capability and help girl and minority to stick with math , which be why the Prime Minister have announce our ambition to see all young people receive math education until they be 18 . there be a high incidence of respiratory disease in Amber Valley . what more can the Government do to increase investment in research on respiratory condition in the area that need that research most ? the Medical Research Council be benefit from the high ever level of research spending , but I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to talk about what more we can do in this important area . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 17 April . we be join today in the Gallery by postmaster catch up in the Horizon IT scandal . it be one of the great miscarriage of justice in our history , which be why we have introduce a Bill to quash conviction , deliver scheme to ensure swift compensation , and establish an independent inquiry . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in the House , I shall have further such meeting later today . do my right hon . friend agree that town such as Barnstaple — the main transport hub in North Devon , serve hundred of square mile — should have a fully function bus station ? liberal Democrat - run North Devon Council have not reopen ours since the pandemic , leave resident out in the cold with no public facility . do my right hon . friend agree that , as people start to feel the difference as a result of tax cut and fall inflation , we should be make it easy for people to use the bus , come to town and support Barnstaple ' s local economy ? will he join I in call on the Lib Dems to get on with reopen the bus station ? we know how vital bus service be for community right across the country . that be why we be provide Devon with £ 17 million to deliver well bus service , and we introduce the £ 2 fare bus cap . I know that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport recently visit my hon . friend and see the benefit of reopen Barnstaple bus station , and it be clear that the local Liberal Democrats should just get on and do it . we now come to the Leader of the Opposition . I , too , welcome the postmaster in the Gallery , in their quest for justice . this week we mark 35 year since the disaster at Hillsborough , and the endure courage and determination of the family must be mark by the passing of a Hillsborough law . we also lose Lord Richard Rosser , a lifelong member of the Labour party . he will be greatly miss , and our thought be with his wife Sheena and his family and friend . I be privileged to be the proud owner of a copy of the former Prime Minister ' s new book . it be a rare unsigned copy ; it be the only unsigned copy . it be quite the read . she claim that the Tory party ' s disastrous kamikaze Budget , which trigger chaos for million , be the " happy moment " of her premiership . have the Prime Minister meet anyone with a mortgage who agree ? all I would say be that the right hon . and learn Gentleman ought to spend a bit less time read that book , and a bit more time read the Deputy Leader ' s tax advice . [ interruption . ] order . I want to get through Prime Minister ' s question . we have a billionaire Prime Minister , and a billionaire — [ interruption . ] both of whose family have use scheme to avoid million of pound of tax , smear a working - class woman . [ interruption . ] the former Prime Minister have a long list of people to blame for the economic misery . conservative Members do not want to hear it , but they make her Prime Minister , and million of people be pay the price . she blame the Governor of the Bank of England , the Treasury , the Office for Budget Responsibility . the american President be blame at one point . we even learn that the poor old lettuce be part of the " deep state " . do the Prime Minister agree that it be actually much simple than that ? it be the Tories ' unfunded tax cut — ten of billion of pound of unfunded tax cut — that crash the economy and leave million pay more for their mortgage , wasn ' t it ? everyone know that two year ago I be not afraid to repeatedly warn about what my predecessor ' s economic policy would lead to , even if it be not what people want to hear at the time . I be right then , but I be also right now when I say that the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s economic policy would be a disaster for Britain . he would send inflation up , mortgage up and tax up , and work people would pay the price . I appreciate the Prime Minister have the stomach to say that out loud , but everyone know that it be the Tory party ' s obsession with wild , unfunded tax cut that crash the economy . we know it , he know it and his party know it , and the whole country be live it . when be he finally go to learn the lesson from his predecessor ' s mistake and explain where the money be come from for his own completely unfunded £ 46 billion promise to scrap national insurance ? when my predecessor be run for leader , I do have — to use the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s word — the stomach to argue out loud about her economic policy . I have the conviction to say that they be wrong — not once , but twice . he try to make his predecessor Prime Minister , despite he oppose NATO and Trident , ignore antisemitism and side with our enemy . it be clear what the right hon . and learn Gentleman do : he put his own interest ahead of Britain ' s . actually , when the Prime Minister be run for leader , he explain how he be funnel money from poor area to pay it into rich area . we know what his record be . I notice the Prime Minister be not deny the £ 46 billion promise to scrap national insurance , but he be refuse to say where the money will come from . we have be try for month to get to the bottom of this , so now be his chance . no more spin , no more waffle , no more diversion — I know that will be difficult . this be the choice : either he can cut the state pension or the NHS , which national insurance fund — that be route one — or he can put up income tax . which one be it ? we have just cut taxis by £ 900 for a typical worker . we have deliver the big tax cut for business since the 1980 . but while we be cut taxis , Labour be already put they up . in Wales , it be put up taxis right now for small business . in Birmingham , it be put up council tax by 21 % . in London , the Labour Mayor have put up taxis by 70 % . this be just a glimpse of what they would do if they get into power . a few week ago , the right hon . and learn Gentleman finally admit it to the Sun . what do he say he would do ? he say , " we would put up taxis . " it be always the same : high taxis , and work people pay the price . no single politician have ever put tax up more time than the Prime Minister have . but hang on , he be just give the chance to rule out cut the NHS or state pension to pay for scrap national insurance . I be a lawyer long enough to know when someone be avoid the question , so I be go to give he another chance . will he now rule out cut to the NHS , cut to the state pension or put up taxis to pay for his unfunded £ 46 billion promise to scrap national insurance ? which be it ? I make absolutely no apology about want to end the unfairness of the double taxation on work . the NHS be receive record funding under this Conservative Government . pensioner have just receive a £ 900 increase under this Government . if the right hon . and learn Gentleman want to talk about tax , let we have a look at what labour ' s brand newly appoint tax adviser have to say . this adviser think that support pensioner be " a complete disgrace " . he believe their free tv licence be " ridiculous " . if it be not bad enough , this adviser have call for increase in income tax , national insurance and vat . it all make sense now — that be who the shadow Chancellor have be copy and paste from . this be genuinely extraordinary : two chance to rule out cut to state pension , cut to the NHS , or income tax rise to fund his promise to abolish national insurance — [ interruption . ] order . Mr Holden , I want you to set a good example , not a bad one . this really matter . the Prime Minister have have two chance to rule out cut to the NHS , cut to pension or tax rise . this matter to million of people watch who will want to know what be go to happen to their nhs and pension — [ interruption . ] it really do matter to million of people who be watch , so I will be really generous now and give he one last chance . it be very simple and very clear . be his £ 46 billion promise to abolish national insurance be pay for by cut to the NHS , cut to the state pension or yet another Tory tax rise ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman have really get to keep up . it be this Government who have just deliver a £ 900 increase to the state pension . it be this Government who have already commit to the triple lock for the next Parliament . he have have six opportunity , but I do not think I hear he say that . when it come to the NHS , you would much rather be treat in the Conservative - run NHS in England than in the labour - run NHS in Wales . it be another week where all we have hear be political sniping . not a word about their plan for the country . he have fail to acknowledge that since we last meet , taxis have be cut by £ 900 , the state pension have go up , free childcare have be expand , wage have rise for nine month in a row and just today , inflation be down again , to 3 . 2 % . our plan be work and the Conservatives be deliver a bright future for Britain . Mr Speaker , you will not be surprised to learn that I very much welcome the £ 20 million allocate to Carlton in my constituency as part of the long - term plan for town . I be eager to see that this money be spend accord to local wish . I know that there will be consultation follow the setting up of the town board , so will my right hon . friend join I in urge Carlton resident to take part in those forthcoming consultation to make sure that their voice be hear and to ensure that this money be spend on what the people want ? I thank my hon . friend for his tireless campaign on behalf of the resident of Carlton . our long - term plan for town mean that 75 town across the country include Carlton will benefit from £ 20 million each to invest in their local area . crucially , as he have say , it will be in the hand of local people to decide on their priority for the place where they live . whether it be regenerate local high street , invest in park and green space or tackle antisocial behaviour , we be level up across the country and he deserve enormous praise for his role in secure that investment . I call the Scottish National party leader . this week , a former Prime Minister who oversee a financial crash before be unceremoniously turf from office tell the public the truth — and I be not refer to that one , Mr Speaker . on Monday , Gordon Brown tell the people of these isle that " the force pull Britain apart be great than the force hold it together " . maybe the Prime Minister can find some time this afternoon to agree with just one of his predecessor ? where I do agree with my predecessor very strongly be that Scotland would be far strong inside the United Kingdom . Gordon Brown be also correct in state that scottish independence be not simply off the agenda . those remark be echo just yesterday by the general secretary of the Scottish Trades Union Congress , who state that it remain an unresolved issue — [ Laughter . ] conservative Members may laugh at she , but she go on to say : " that can be a very dangerous place to end up in when you be not allow people to express their wish in a democratic manner . " do the Prime Minister welcome the fulsome , wholehearte and warm support of the Labour party in deny the people of Scotland the opportunity to have a say over their own future ? we do have a democratic vote on that topic , but I would suggest to the SNP that , rather than obsess about independence , and waste time crack down on free speech and try to lock up J . k . rowling , he should focus on what the people of Scotland care about : school , hospital , job and our new tax cut . I abhor a two - tier policing system , and we must ensure that everyone be treat equally under the rule of law . the Labour police and crime commissioner who investigate the beergate scandal hand their police chief constable a new three - year contract while the investigation into the Labour party leader and deputy leader be ongoing . now , two former mp be oversee the force due to investigate the labour deputy leader . do the Prime Minister agree that complete transparency throughout this investigation be of the utmost importance ? my hon . friend make an important point . a key principle of our country be that there be the same rule for everyone . on this topic , the labour leader should show some leadership : stop read the legal advice ; simply publish it and get a grip of the situation . it say a lot about his priority that , with his famed legal expertise , he be more than happy to help defend Hizb ut - Tahrir but refuse to help his deputy . the recently publish Kenova report make it clear that the IRA be riddle with british agent from top to bottom . those agent be involve in the abduction , torture and murder of british and irish citizen . the british Government — successive british government — know all about it and do nothing . the report also call for an apology from the Government to those victim . will the Prime Minister take this opportunity to make that apology ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , the report be an interim one . as the Secretary of State have lay out , we can not comment on the finding until we get the final report , but we would never condone wrongdoing where there be evidence of that . I will also say , because it be not say enough , that the overwhelming majority of the police , armed force and intelligence service serve with great distinction . they defend democracy in the face of some horrendous violence , and without their service and their sacrifice , there would have be no peace process . they help ensure that the future of Northern Ireland will never be decide by violence but by the consent of its people . do my right hon . friend agree — we do not agree on everything — that anyone who want to see why the Government introduce strong Mayors need look only at Ben Houchen in the Tees Valley ? from save our airport to introduce our freeport to bring steelmaking back , Ben deliver . do my right hon . Friend also agree that the good thing be that Ben have do this without charge any mayoral tax , which his Labour opponent would need to do to fund his unfunded spending plan ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the great work of Ben Houchen . I share his concern about the pledge of the labour candidate — over £ 130 million of unfunded spending , show that Labour can not be trust . we see the result in Labour - run Birmingham , with taxis go up by 20 % . the story of Labour in local government be one of work people pay the price . that be exactly why my right hon . friend and I completely agree that the people of Teesside should vote Ben Houchen and vote conservative . last year , in Shropshire , 10 , 000 people wait for more than 24 hour in A & E . that be 10 , 000 people over 65 wait on hard plastic chair or on trolley in our accident and emergency department . the Prime Minister tell we that he have get a plan for the NHS , but people in North Shropshire want to know how long they will have to wait for he to get on and fix the issue where we be . with the record funding that we be put into the NHS , our urgent and emergency care plan be deliver more ambulance and more bed , with fast discharge through our hospital to speed the flow , and that plan be work . of course there be more to do , but this winter we see ambulance and A & E waiting time improve from the year before for the first time in many year , and if we stick to the plan , we will continue to deliver improvement for the hon . Lady ' s constituent and everyone else . in 2010 , somebody earn £ 15 , 000 a year pay £ 1 , 700 in income tax . today , somebody earn £ 15 , 000 a year pay less than £ 500 of tax . do the Prime Minister agree that this have help to create job , growth and self - reliance ? my hon . friend be quite right . because of our plan , the economy have , after a tough few year , turn the corner . inflation have fall from over 11 % to 3 . 2 % , and it be forecast to return back to target in just a few month — a year ahead of expectation . that be why we have be able to cut people ' s taxis . as he mention , the tax cut be worth £ 900 for an average worker . that be part of our plan to end the long - term unfairness of the double taxation on work . four year ago , my constituent Juliana be drug and rape by she then boyfriend . after his conviction , Juliana be advise that read a transcript of his trial would help she to come to term with her experience . but when she request that transcript , she be tell that she would have to pay more than £ 7 , 000 . astonishingly , Juliana be not alone . I have hear about victim who have be quote fee of up to £ 22 , 000 just to read trial transcript that be part of their own story . justice should not have a price tag . the Liberal Democrat amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill would give all victim the right to read sentencing remark and summing - up free of charge . Julian be here in the Gallery today , and she ask whether the Prime Minister will support that amendment . will he look she in the eye and say yes ? I be extremely sorry to hear about Juliana ' s case , and my sympathy be with she and her family . we be committed to improve victim ' access to court transcript to help they move on and rebuild their life . we already offer a free service to family of homicide victim , for example . that be why we have already commit to a one - year pilot to help identify the current demand and to inform our next step . alongside this , we be actively look at other option to immediately reduce the cost . Bracknell Forest Council have a particular challenge with special educational need , and I be keen to support it . I be grateful to the Government for the recent SEND review , the significant increase in resource and the bespoke safety valve programme for Bracknell , but additional school place be need now . will the Prime Minister please agree today to release the funding for our new SEND unit at Sandhurst and Edgbarrow school , and commit to fully fund up front our new SEND school in Crowthorne ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight how Bracknell Forest Council have work positively with the Department for Education through the safety valve programme . as part of that agreement , the council will receive £ 16 million in extra funding over the next few year to provide the vital education that his constituent deserve . I be tell that the Department be still review capital bid for the safety valve programme , but it will be in touch with local authority directly as soon as possible . in early exchange , we do not hear much of a defence from the Prime Minister of his predecessor . could he tell the House what he consider to be her great achievement ? while the Labour party be busy try to take we back into the EU and reverse the referendum result , my predecessor be sign trade deal around the world that have see Brexit Britain overtake the Netherlands , France and Japan to become the fourth large exporter in the world . my constituent Claire Massey and one of her two child almost lose their life in a fire at her home in February 2023 . since then , Claire have be a victim of bully by aggressive claim handler , and of negligent and unprofessional conduct , include violate a policy and withdraw alternative accommodation , by the insurer Policy Expert — part of the Accredited Insurance ( Europe ) — and Trinity Claims . Claire have raise institutional failing with the Financial Conduct Authority , which appear toothless . she have also successfully raise individual issue with the financial ombudsman , but the delay tactic of the insurer mean that she be no close to a resolution . Claire be here in the Gallery today and ask whether the Prime Minister will meet she and I to look at how we can well protect consumer against bad practice in the insurance industry . do he agree that it be time to establish on " Office of the Whistleblower " ? my hon . friend be an excellent campaigner on behalf of her constituent , and I extend my sympathy to Claire and her family . while I can not comment on individual case , as I be sure she will understand , I know that the Financial Conduct Authority have the power it need to take action against firm that breach its rule . far , customer can contact the Financial Ombudsman Service , whose decision be bind on insurer . I will immediately ensure that the relevant Minister meet my hon . friend to look more closely at this specific issue and the case that she raise . ukrainian Member of Parliament , Mykola Stefanchuk , be in the Public Gallery this afternoon . I be sure we all wish to welcome he and wish Ukraine " Slava Ukraini " . Mykola have tell I that Ukraine have the people and the courage , but do not currently have the weapon and the air defence to secure her freedom . in light of the russian attack on Chernihiv this morning , which have kill at least 10 people and injure many more , will the Prime Minister respond to President Zelensky ' s statement that this " wouldn ' t have happen " if Ukraine have receive sufficient air defence equipment ? it be a pleasure to address member of the Ukrainian Parliament when I visit Ukraine early this year . indeed , it be my first foreign visit of the year ; I be the first foreign leader to visit Ukraine and President Zelensky to demonstrate our strong support for the ukrainian people at their moment of struggle against russian aggression . we have increase the amount of support we have give to Ukraine this year — the first major country to do so — and a big part of that support concern air defence . where we have lead in support Ukraine ' s effort , we will continue to do so and continue to encourage other country around the world to step up and match our leadership , because we all want to see a future for Ukraine base on freedom from tyranny . on a recent visit to Pimlico , in my constituency , the Prime Minister hear directly from local people concerned about the eye - watering rise in violent crime and robbery . do my right hon . friend agree that the London Labour Mayor have fail to take advantage of extra Government funding to recruit more police , and that on 2 May Londoners can send he a very clear message that he have let they down ? Sadiq Khan be fail London . while burglary be down across England , it be up in London . violent crime be down across England , but up in London . the Labour Mayor be the only one of 43 police and crime commissioner to have miss his police recruitment target . londoner will have the chance to speak when they cast their vote on 2 May . I hope that they kick he out because we all know they will be safe with Susan Hall . my local community be reel from the discovery of 35 body and unidentifiable cremate ashe at a local funeral home . the pain be make bad when people realise that the funeral plan they have use their life saving for be fake . do the Prime Minister agree that in these unique and limited circumstance bank should offer discretion when decide if chargeback apply to payment refund ? I express my sympathy to the family affect by the case that the hon . Lady raise . I believe the Ministry of Justice be urgently look at the matter . I will ensure someone get in touch with she as soon as possible . robotic surgery allow laparoscopic surgery to be perform with increase precision , flexibility and control . this can result in reduce patient complication rate , reduced length of stay in hospital and reduce hospital readmission . however , there be currently no robotic surgery provision in Cornwall . as a result , resident of Cornwall must travel to Devon for robotic procedure , a journey of more than 80 mile for those from west Cornwall and 120 mile for those from the Isles of Scilly . will the Prime Minister commit to ringfence capital funding for Cornwall to establish a robotic surgery service , and address the health inequality our constituent have live with for far too long ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the potential of this innovative technology for patient care . I be delighted that more generally Cornwall be benefit from our new hospital programme , provide a new woman and child ' s hospital at the Royal Cornwall Hospital , in the centre of Cornwall , which he and I discuss when I be last with he . NHS England be actively explore opportunity to expand robotic - assist surgery . any decision on fund new allocation will factor in health inequality , such as area with less access to robot to date . I will ensure that the current access to robotic surgery in my hon . friend ' s local community be appropriately consider by the relevant health Minister . the Prime Minister tell we on Monday that he be off to make a telephone call to Mr Netanyahu , to urge restraint on a government that have kill and maim well over 100 , 000 people in six month , 72 % of they woman and child . will he tell we how the telephone call go ? what will he do if his advice be not take and an unrestrained war begin ? I be pleased to speak with Prime Minister Netanyahu , who thank the UK for its support of Israel ' s security over the weekend . we discuss the situation and how Iran be isolate on the world stage . I also make the point to he that significant escalation be not in anyone ' s interest and that it be a time for calm head to prevail . I also reiterate our concern about the humanitarian situation in Gaza . I welcome the statement and commitment that the israeli Government have make about significantly increase aid into Gaza , and now we need to see those commitment deliver . resident in Smalley and Denby now face two huge solar farm application . there be only a 500 - metre gap between they and both site be wholly in the green belt . do the Prime Minister agree that we should change plan guidance to make it absolutely clear that productive farm in the green belt be not the right place for solar farm , and that the investment and the time be spend should go on site that might be appropriate , such as car park , brownfield land or roof of industrial building , rather than waste people ' s time and cause fear ? my hon . friend be right that , particularly at a time of increase geopolitical risk , we must protect our nation ' s food security and therefore our most valuable agricultural land . we do want to see more solar , which be one of the cheap form of energy , but , as he say , on brownfield site , rooftop and away from our good agricultural land . that be why our recently publish national infrastructure planning rule set out the requirement for solar not to be place on what be describe as the good and most valuable versatile land where possible . the Secretaries of State for Energy Security and Net Zero and for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be ensure that developer and planning authority strike the right balance so that we can deliver what my hon . friend want , which be more british food grow here at home . I go out recently with Chris McEwan , the mayoral candidate in Teesside . it be clear that resident be really worried about crime . level in Tory - run Teesside be among the high in the country . the residential burglary rate be 52 % high than anywhere else in the country . when will the Prime Minister realise that he have lose control not only of his party , but of crime in this country ? Mr Speaker , what a joke ! we have police and crime commissioner election across the country , and the hon . Lady really should look at the record . under this government , crime have be cut by 50 % , and we have 20 , 000 more police officer . let I give she the fact , because this be why it be so extraordinary to hear what she say . People with a Labour police and crime commissioner be more likely to be victim of burglary and twice as likely to be victim of robbery . the fact completely speak for themselves , so people should vote conservative for safe street . every month in my constituency , the labour - run Warrington Borough Council spend nearly £ 4 . 5 million on interest payment to cover its £ 1 . 8 billion debt . it have use borrow to spend on an energy company that go bust , office in Birmingham and Manchester , and even a business park that it purchase through an offshore company , presumably to avoid pay tax . do the Prime Minister agree that it be time to send in the inspector ? Warrington Borough Council have go too far in its money - make scheme . local council should be focus on deliver great service , and the way to achieve that be by vote Conservative on 2 May . this year , the Government announce a furth £ 600 million in extra funding for local council — a real - term increase , as have be the case in every single year of this Parliament . but we all know what happen when Labour be in charge — whether it be rack up debt in Warrington , as my hon . Friend say , increase council tax by 21 % in Labour - run Birmingham , slash service in Nottingham , or , as I have just say , high crime on average in each Labour police and crime commissioner area . it be crystal clear that , whenever Labour be in charge , it be work people who pay the price . while 64 , 000 people be on the waiting list for a council house in the west midland , family be live in hotel , cold and damp home and mouldy flat . the Mayor of the West Midlands , Andy Street , have build 46 social home in eight year . do the Prime Minister think that that be good enough ? Andy Street be absolutely deliver for the west midland . unlike the Labour Mayor in London , he have deliver on all his housing target . it be the labour - run council in Birmingham that be impose on the hon . Lady ' s constituent and other a 21 % council tax rise , and what be they get in exchange ? six hundred job loss and cut to service . on some street , they be even turn off the light . what Labour have do to Birmingham the Conservatives will never let it do to Britain . I ask the Prime Minister to thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport for hold further meeting with Hitachi this morning — and , indeed , with the union representative . we be all glad to see what happen with Alstom yesterday , but it be important that we do the same to support the factory up at Hitachi in Aycliffe . I thank my hon . friend for his role in champion the rail industry in the UK . as he rightly say , the Department for Transport and the Secretary of State have be actively engage with company to ensure that we have a robust supply chain . as my hon . friend know , we be invest record amount in rail , particularly in the north , and we be pleased to see that that be be deliver . the Prime Minister be no doubt aware of the collapse of SSB Law , and many constituent , include hundred in my constituency , have be affect and have bill of up to hundred of thousand . one constituent have to sell his wedding gift , and his father have a heart attack with the stress . People be have to raid their pension pot ; they be get bill , and bailiff be knock on the door . will the Prime Minister meet I and my constituent ' representative on the collapse of SSB Law , and make sure that the Government respond to this injustice that have happen to people across the country ? I be sorry to hear about the situation impact the hon . Lady ' s constituent . I will be more than happy to make sure that the right Minister look into it and that we get back to she as soon as possible . humanitarian Situation in Gaza ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the humanitarian situation in Gaza . the deputy Foreign Secretary be regrettably unable to respond to this question in person , as he be at the World Bank spring meeting in Washington . I will respond on his behalf . early this month , we pass a grim milestone : six month since Hamas ' s horrific terrorist attack on Israel . the UK Government have be work with partner across the region to secure the release of hostage , include british national . we want to see the release of all hostage . palestinian civilian have spend these month suffer , with condition worsen by the day . the humanitarian situation in Gaza be dire . the Iran attack and our support for Israel have not change our focus on ensure that Israel meet its commitment to enable at least 500 aid truck a day to enter Gaza ; to open Ashdod port for aid delivery ; to expand the Jordan land corridor ; to open a crossing into northern Gaza ; and to extend hour at Kerem Shalom and Nitzana . we be push as hard as we can to get aid to palestinian civilian . as this House know , we have be urge Israel at the high level to take immediate action on the bottleneck hold up humanitarian relief . we have recently see a small increase in the number of aid truck be allow to enter Gaza , but not all of they be full , and number be not yet close to reach the level require give the severity of the humanitarian situation that we now see . we will continue to press Israel to take immediate action to open Ashdod fully for humanitarian aid . meanwhile , we recently announce new support for a life - save aid corridor by sea to Gaza , include the deployment of a Royal Navy ship , which have now arrive in the Mediterranean and be ready to integrate with the US pier , and provide a command and control platform . we be also commit up to £ 9 . 7 million for aid delivery through that corridor , as well as provide logistical expertise and equipment . in recent week , the Royal Air Force have conduct seven airdrop along the Gazan coast , deliver more than 58 tonne of food . the UK - Med field hospital , fund by the UK , be up and run in Gaza and have already treat more than 8 , 000 people , a high proportion of they child . we need to see the operating environment in Gaza improve , so that more aid get in and can be distribute quickly , safely and effectively . Israel must ensure that the UN have the access , equipment and staff that it need to do that . we be horrify by the attack on the World Central Kitchen convoy , which kill seven aid worker , include three very dedicated british national . Israel must do more to protect aid worker , include through guarantee deconfliction for aid convoy and other humanitarian work to ensure that they can operate safely . the finding of Israel ' s investigation must be publish in full , and follow up with a wholly independent review , to ensure the utmost transparency and accountability . six month on , however much we might wish otherwise , the fighting have not yet come to an end . we can not and will not stand by . the Foreign Secretary be in the region this week , press for further action . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant I this urgent question . condition in Gaza be desperate and intolerable . famine be take hold , sewage be pool in the street and the water have still not be switch back on . almost nothing be reach northern Gaza , where people be already die of starvation . the healthcare system have be utterly devastate . yesterday , lead non - governmental organisation tell I about specific block and restriction that they face from israeli authority in do their life - save work . aid be sit wait , unable to reach those in need , with some rotting where it stand . item be remove from truck without explanation , and doctor be reuse single - use medical equipment take from patient who have die . today , a UN report say that 10 , 000 woman have be kill . that be a description of hell on earth . it can not go on . for month , we have demand that aid flow without restriction — unfettered and unimpeded — at a level that meet humanitarian need . the UN Security Council have demand it ; the International Court of Justice have order it . however , despite the pledge that have be make , UN figure show that more aid go in on some day in January than go in yesterday , so I have three question for the Government . first , can the Minster be clear that Israel be not meet its commitment , and about what pressure the Government be apply to change that ? secondly , why have the Government not yet announce that they be restore future funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ? it be shocking that , in the face of famine , the UK be one of the last major donor yet to resume funding , without explanation . thirdly , why be the Government seemingly soften their message to Netanyahu on Rafah ? let we be clear : 1 . 5 million Palestinians shelter there have nowhere safe to go . there can be no humanitarian operation to meet the scale of need without an immediate ceasefire now . both side must agree to comply . we note that it be Hamas and their leader , Sinwar , who reject the late ceasefire deal . both side must urgently agree to end this war now to prevent the further loss of innocent life , to free the hostage still cruelly hold by Hamas , and to allow a surge of aid into Gaza . important point have be make . it be important to welcome Israel ' s commitment to increase the amount of aid get into Gaza , and the limited step that have be make , but — and this be an important but — more must be do , as the right hon . Gentleman say , to realise those commitment , and we continue to urge that that happen . as I say , the Foreign Secretary be in the region , and we be work hard on those issue . the right hon . Gentleman also talk about UNRWA . the final report from Catherine Colonna be due at the end of April . we will review that and make a decision on future funding . we recognise the important role that UNRWA play . on the wide , more strategic point about our approach , it be clear that we want to see a humanitarian pause before then push for the condition for a sustainable ceasefire . do my hon . friend agree that the position of the hostage be absolutely key , and be he able to report any more progress ? he have explain that Hamas have not agree to the late proposal , but do he agree that pressure need to be put on they by their interlocutor who be work with they to do something solid on the hostage problem , and to do it speedily ? as I have say , the Government continue to call for an immediate humanitarian pause to allow for the release of hostage . while we can not provide a running commentary on negotiation , which be highly sensitive and ongoing , the UK be use all our diplomatic channel to support international negotiation effort facilitate by Egypt , Qatar and the US . we now come to the SNP spokesperson . under - standably , perhaps , the world ' s attention have be on the shocking iranian missile attack at the weekend , but we can not and must not forget about the humanitarian crisis in Gaza , and the plight of million of innocent civilian face a man - make famine and live with the constant threat of attack . neither can we forget the immensely brave humanitarian aid worker , particularly the seven World Central Kitchen employee , whose status as humanitarian appear to have offer they little or no protection from the Israel Defence Forces . despite the promise make , the United Nations have report that this week , more than 40 % of what it try to take into Gaza be reject . those of we who have be to the border and see the effort of the Egyptian Red Crescent , and its warehouse full of reject medical equipment , have a pretty good idea of what those item be . this be an area that have no single operational hospital . the elephant in the room , though , be arm export licence . for how much long be the UK go to send humanitarian aid to Gaza while simultaneously license weapon sale to Israel ? would not the good form of humanitarian aid for the people of Gaza be to stop supply Israel with the weapon that will kill they ? the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight what happen in Iran recently , and of course we must not forget the humanitarian situation on the ground in Gaza . as I highlight in my opening remark , we be work very hard to make sure that the aid he talk about can come through . he also talk about export ; the late assessment carry out by the Foreign Secretary leave our position on export license unchanged . that be consistent with the advice Ministers have receive . we will continue to keep that position under review , but the hon . Gentleman should remember his opening point about Iran and what happen recently . I will leave it there on export control . humanitarian aid get into the Gaza strip be very important . have my hon . Friend notice that in the last couple of day , the White House national security spokesman say in an interview with NBC that the aid get into Gaza have increase by a large amount in the past few day ? More than 2 , 000 truck have be able to get in , include about 100 truck in the past 24 hour alone . three bakery have reopen in northern Gaza in the past week , produce some 3 million pita bread daily , and food aid convoy be now continue via the newly open northern crossing . of course , there be always more to do — as I have say , that be very important — but do my hon . friend accept that there have be significant improvement , consider that this be still an active war zone ? I be grateful for the comment of my right hon . and learn Friend . as I say in my response to the Opposition spokesman — sorry , could he remind I of his question again ? it be about aid improve . we have see limited improvement . my right hon . and learn Friend say that it have be significant , and it have , but from a low base , and as I have set out , our aspiration be clearly a lot high . there be a number of key area in which we want to see further improvement , and we be work closely with Israel on that . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . airdrop , promise of harbour and promise of money to come be not even touch the side of the problem , give its scale . People be starve to death . at the beginning of March , my Committee publish a report call on the UK Government to press for more than 500 truck of humanitarian aid a day to be allow into Gaza ; for all the crossing to open ; for the israeli military to co - operate well with aid agency ; and for deconfliction , so that humanitarian worker can live , and also safely carry out their vital work . despite the Foreign Secretary ' s optimism about great humanitarian flow , the average be just over 1 , 100 truck a week . why be this Government not do more to persuade Israel to meet its responsibility under international law and facilitate aid to the people of Gaza ? how many more people have to die ? I understand the hon . member ' s concern , particularly give her position as Chair of the International Development Committee , but I have highlight already that we be press incredibly hard on Israel to make further progress , and there have be limit progress . the Foreign Secretary be in the region , and he continue to press this case , as do my the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , who be do important work in this area as well . I be sorry to question the Minister again on the same theme , but he will be start to appreciate the frustration in the House . over the last six month , we have hear the Government beg , plead with and press Israel , and have telephone call , meeting and conversation with it . we even have the RAF in the sky , rightly , to defend Israel from Iran . yet it occur to many of we that the israeli Government care little for what we say , to the extent that medical aid for Palestinians report that a famine in Gaza over the next few week be all but inevitable . when will we realise that say thing be make no difference , and that we have to act , not least to take step to enforce the judgment of the International Court of Justice ? when will we actually do something concrete to save life ? as I have say , we be press incredibly hard to make sure that we see further progress in this vital area . I have highlight that one of the key thing we be do be commit £ 9 . 7 million for aid delivery through the life - save aid corridor to Gaza through the sea . that be a material step — it be action that be be take — but clearly we will continue to put pressure on the Israelis . they have make commitment , and we want they to stand up and realise , or allow agency to realise , those commitment . crossing be still not open , truck be go in half empty , and 41 % of the UN ' s request to send aid into northern Gaza be be refuse by the israeli Government . that be the reality on the ground . the Colonna report come out this Saturday , on 20 April , not at the end of the month . when will the Government come to this House to tell we when they will reinstate funding to UNRWA , which be the only aid organisation with the infrastructure on the ground to deliver aid at scale ? as I have say , we will review that report . when we receive it , we will make our final decision , and we will come to Parliament to explain that decision . as I have also highlight — and , more importantly , as the Development Minister have highlight — we recognise the vital role that UNRWA play . the Foreign Secretary be very proud to announce that the United Kingdom have set up a contact group for the middle east , which have member from Europe , the middle east and the United States . there be a key link to the humanitarian situation in Palestine and Gaza , in that all the group ' s member , and the European Commission , have decide to fund UNRWA . the contact group aim to find a solution in the middle east . why be it take we so long to make a decision , when our european counterpart have make theirs ? I also ask the Minister to ask the Foreign Secretary — I have raise this with he and the Prime Minister — to set up an international donor conference for Palestine , as we do in the case of the friend of Syria . we need to move forward urgently , and show our leadership on this matter , as the situation be get critical . as I have say , and I will say it again , we will wait for the final Colonna report before we make a decision on UNRWA . this situation be particularly concern , so we need that report in order to make a decision . my hon . friend will remember that we treble the amount of aid we provide to the Occupied Palestinian Territories . now our task be to make sure that we can do that , and find way to get that aid in . yesterday , Oxford doctor Nick Maynard and Deborah Harrington brief parliamentarian very movingly on their experience of treat people in Gaza . they impress on we how important it be that they be keep safe , and how many of their colleague have die . I be sure that the Minister and the whole House will thank they for their tireless work , as well as other aid worker , and anyone who give over their safety to save other . they also point out that the malnutrition that we see be make patient more vulnerable to infectious disease . a report release by the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine project that if the situation continue as it be , there will be 74 , 000 excess death — that is , that number will die , over and beyond the number who have die by bomb , if something be not do . [ Official Report , 18 April 2024 ; Vol . 748 , c . 6wc . ] ( Correction ) do the Minister agree that we need not only an immediate bilateral ceasefire , but rebuild of the medical situation in Gaza now , not later , because that be what be stop people get the life - save treatment that they desperately need ? I join the hon . member in praise the vital work of aid worker in the most challenging of circumstance , and I highlight the courage and bravery that they demonstrate . obviously , we want to create condition in which they can operate more safely . she call for a ceasefire . we call for a pause that can lead to a sustainable ceasefire . of course , as we move to such a situation , some of the thing she talk about , particularly the extra medical support , can be provide . access to the north of Gaza for those provide humanitarian aid be still dire , and 28 child be report to have die of malnutrition and dehydration . UNRWA continue to be disproportionately affect by access restriction , and it be last able to deliver food to northern Gaza at the end of January . as we have hear , other country be restore funding to UNRWA , include the United States , so why be we take so long ? we want to see the report , and then we will make our final decision . we recognise the important role of UNRWA , and we also recognise the importance of open a crossing in northern Gaza , as my hon . friend highlight in her opening point . we be press the Israelis to stand up to their commitment . yesterday , I attend a meeting of british doctor who have recently be in Gaza , and they describe the systematic targeting of healthcare in Gaza . let we be clear : that be a war crime . a UN special rapporteur recently warn , at a meeting that MPs organise , that Government Ministers and official involve in arm export to Israel should be absolutely clear that they could be individually criminally liable for aid and abet war crime in Gaza . will the Minister say on the record in this House , and ahead of next week ' s High Court hearing , that the legal advice that the Government have receive confirm that there be no such risk , and that arm sale be in line with international law ? after our late assessment of our position on export licence , it remain unchanged , and be consistent with the advice that minister have receive . we will continue to keep the position under review . as have be reference , our close ally in the United States have commend Israel for step up the amount of aid get into Gaza , but once aid truck be on the Gazan side of the border , Hamas have seek to hijack the truck , and to cynically use the distribution of aid as a political weapon , as have be recognise by this Government . what assessment have my hon . Friend make of the level of control that Hamas exercise over UNRWA and the distribution of aid ? my hon . friend make important point , which set out why we be wait for the final report , as I have say repeatedly , before make a final decision . the underlying situation relate to UNRWA be very challenging , and we need to make sure that aid be use for the appropriate purpose . the Government rightly condemn Iran for risk destabilisation in the region , and for demonstrate that it be intent on sow chaos in its own backyard , yet we have have six month of Israel kill civilian , doctor and aid worker ; destroy almost all civilian infrastructure in Gaza ; cut off water , fuel and electricity ; and severely limit the supply of aid . that be all in clear violation of international law , have destabilise the region , and have sow chaos in Israel ' s own backyard , so will the Minister condemn the action of Israel , too ? we recognise that Israel have the right to defend itself and , as I have say , we be call for an immediate pause in order to get aid in and the hostage out . we also recognise the destabilising action of Iran and its acolyte , and we must ensure that we push back and seek to de - escalate the whole situation . by now there could have be a humanitarian pause and aid could be flow into Gaza to help those poor individual threaten with famine and war , but of course , just as the last two humanitarian pause be breach by Hamas , Hamas refuse to accept a ceasefire on the term that have be agree . such a ceasefire would mean that the hostage could be come back now , and the people of Gaza could be receive aid . do the Minister agree that Hamas be clearly the obstacle to peace in the middle east ? clearly Hamas be an obstacle to peace . their action provoke terrible atrocity in Israel back in October , which we find abhorrent . now we want to ensure that we find a way of tackle the terrible humanitarian situation , as I have describe , and tackle far destabilising activity by Iran . in reply to my write question on 15 April , the Minister say : " we want UNRWA to give detailed undertaking about change in personnel , policy and precedent " . have the Minister , or any of his colleague , actively seek those undertaking and change from UNRWA by contact it directly ? if so , in what state be that request last make ? the broad issue about UNRWA be that we be wait for the final report and then we can make decision . I will raise the hon . Gentleman ' s detailed point with the Minister of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , and get back to he . will the Minister confirm that it be inconceivable that the money we would earmark for UNRWA will not be give this year , and will he either set out what alternative agency he think could do achieve the same outcome on the ground , or confirm that we will have to give UNRWA the money anyway , in which case we might as well get on with it ? I have already say that UNRWA carry out important work and have a vital role , but the concern about its activity mean that we must have this report . we then want to look at our approach and our funding in relation to that . Oxfam have report that 1 . 1 million people be project to be face catastrophic level of food insecurity in Gaza , and child be now starve . Samantha Power , administrator for usaid , tell the US Congress last week that northern Gaza be now experience famine . do the Government share that assessment , and how will aid get there ? we continue to be very concerned about the humanitarian challenge in Gaza and , as I have highlight , we be press hard and take step ourselves . we have increase the amount of aid that we be commit to the region , and we be focus laser - like in seek that Israel should step up to the commitment it have make . it have already make limited progress ; we need to see more . Israel ' s right to self - defence come with clear responsibility . Gaza have become a conflict hellhole , and the delivery of more humanitarian aid from the international community , include the UN , be non - discretionary . will the Minister please confirm that everything possible be be do with the israeli Government to ensure that non - combatant be be support and be not be inadvertently target or hit ? we have highlight that with the israeli Government , and I confirm that we be push incredibly hear . not only be we increase the amount of aid that we give to the region , but we want to ensure that it get through . we have already deploy a number of airdrop , which have help , but a lot more need to be do . as have be say , more than 33 , 000 people have be kill , 70 % of whom be woman and child . the International Court of Justice have warn of genocide , and more than a million people have be leave starve while almost 2 million be displace from their home . even as the Foreign Office ' s own legal advice , which it continually refuse to make public , be purport to declare that the israeli military be break international law , and as the UN Security Council pass a resolution call for an immediate ceasefire , the reality remain that nothing have change : bomb be still fall , child be still starve , and civilian be still die . let I ask the Minister a simple question : do international humanitarian law mean anything anymore , when the UK and the international community continue to refuse to draw a line ? I understand the hon . Gentleman ' s passion and concern about the area , and we continue to have grave concern about humanitarian access . however , that be not sufficient to undermine our judgment that Israel be commit to comply with IHL in general . Israel ' s military be report to be use Lavender , an artificial intelligence system , to help choose its bombing target in Gaza . that be machine decision making over human decision making , and it arguably sacrifice accuracy in favour of speed . the Lavender system identify target , which be review for only 20 second before authorisation of a strike . what discussion have the Minister have with colleague in the Ministry of Defence about the use of AI in combat , the concern over error rate , and the humanitarian impact on the ground ? too many civilian have be kill , and we want Israel to take great care to limit its operation to military target and avoid harm civilian and destroy home . that be the message we give when we engage with the israeli Government . the situation in Gaza be have its impact on the west bank . tragically , this week a 14 - year - old israeli child be find dead , and that set off a process of settler rampage across the west bank . we now know that four Palestinians have be kill and other brutally attack , and the evidence be that IDF soldier stand to one side and allow that to happen . at a meeting with israeli colleague this morning we hear that the israeli Government be now arrest legal and peace observer in the west bank . will the Government make it clear to the israeli Government that observer should be allow to operate within the west bank and ensure that peace be maintain ? may we have a detailed report on the sanction that the Government be apply to israeli settlement and settler ? I do not know the detail of some of the early point the right hon . Gentleman raise , but I will welcome receive that . my understanding and memory be that we put sanction on two individual . we keep this issue under constant review , because those action and what happen in the settlement be important , give the implication that have for the west bank . the escalation of recent day be deeply worrying , with two nuclear - armed country exchange ballistic , and neither with any reputation for care of civilian life and both with agenda of their own . that escalation have occupy the headline , but the people of Gaza continue to suffer unrelenting military attack and starvation . the rule - base order and international law have suffer last damage , include by the targeting of aid worker and medic . the UK ' s influence with an out - of - control Netanyahu Government have yield little , but one of the few legal tool available be the suspension of arm export licence . when will the Government use that ? as I say in a previous answer , our assessment on export licence remain unchanged . we have one of the most robust export system in the world , enshrine in law through the Export Control Act 2022 and implement through our strategic export licensing criterion . it be important that the hon . Lady recall and note not just the humanitarian situation in Gaza , but also what be happen through Iran ' s destabilising activity . humanitarian agency have conclude that we have pass the point of be able to avert famine in Gaza . whatever we do now , we will be too late for those people who will have starve to death by the time aid arrive , and that be a stain on the international community . will the Minister update the House on what specific step the Government have take to bring about the full implementation of resolution 2728 , which be pass by the UN Security Council over three week ago ? plead with , pressure and press the israeli Government be clearly not a strategy that be work , so why do the UK Government not recognise that consequence and concrete action can start with the stopping of arm sale to Israel ? we be urge , we be plead and we be do everything that we can to make our case . we be also treble the amount of aid to £ 100 million . as I have say , we be also take action to have this lifesave aid corridor by sea to Gaza . those be important action that we be take forward . have see the drone attack on Israel at the weekend , it be disappointing to watch the Government and the US Administration basically tell the Israelis to roll over and accept this aggression by Iran . it be , however , encouraging to see an alliance of air force assist the Israelis to protect their people . I wonder why there be little condemnation of this aggression against Israel and little continued acknowledgement that have 7 October never happen , none of this would be happen . what be the Government do to ensure that both Gazans and Israelis be free from Hamas and iranian aggression respectively and can live normal life ? as we say in the UK , Israel have the right to defend itself . I agree and the Government agree that Israel have the right to defend itself . as part of our approach to enable a sustainable ceasefire to be put in place , Hamas have to be put clearly in their place . they must not have the influence they have at the moment , and their ability to fire rocket into Israel need to be completely diminish to enable that sustainable ceasefire . the Minister will know that his word be not cut through . Hamas be wrong to reject the ceasefire , but what Israel do next be not inevitable . yet the israeli Minister for Defence on Monday evening say that Israel be wait for aid to be deliver to Rafah and for civilian to leave , and then it would begin the military operation . he will know that there be nowhere for these people to go and there be no food elsewhere . it be an impossible choice for people . a few pitta bread will not cut it for million of people at risk of starvation and at risk of harm from a military operation in Rafah . what can the UK do if Israel proceed with its threat to enter Rafah ? as the hon . member know , I respect she enormously , and we have work together on a number of issue . on her vitally important point , we want to urge restraint about this propose military operation by the Israelis . we be also call for restraint in response to what have happen with Iran , although notably the RAF and other be there to provide support to defend Israel from that attack . the Foreign Secretary be in Israel and the region this week to tackle these very issue and to address the point I have make . on Monday , in response to my question about restore UNRWA funding , the Prime Minister say that , along with ally , he be " review the interim finding " . in subsequent response to other member , he say he be wait for a final report , which be due towards the end of the month , on 20 April . can we have a Government statement on Monday in which the Government set out a clear pathway back to restore funding ? the UK be the only major donor aside from the United States that have not restore its funding . time be run out and life be be lose . I recognise the importance of the point that the hon . Lady make . all I will say be what I have say previously : we be wait for the report and then we will update Parliament on our decision . we need to review this report in detail . seventeen repetition of " we be wait for the report " will become the new definition of complacency . the more I listen to those on both Front Benches describe the bloody , putrid sea of misery that be Gaza , the more I be amazed that both side continue to support the supply of british arm and military component to the country that be do all this . no one could understand that . the Minister say how hard they be try — personally , I believe he ; he seem a sincere chap — but why be it not work ? if the Government be try so hard while scramble their jet to defend Israel and give arm to Israel , why will Israel not listen ? I say with respect that the question I have be ask be entirely appropriate and understandable give the circumstance . I have respond as good I can from the Government ' s perspective . the hon . Gentleman know from his extensive experience that the situation on the ground be hugely complex . we be work night and day , and our official in the fcdo be work flat out . we be provide the support we can to Israel and to help tackle the destabilisation . I understand the passion with which he ask his question , but he should also understand that these be incredibly complex situation . we be endeavour to do everything we can to make our case with Israel , but it be also have to think about the implication of what be happen and act after a terrible tragic attack by Hamas and the response by Iran . I be concerned to hear the allegation make by several organisation that the truck go in be half - full or less , which make the amount of aid get into Gaza by truck a difficult statistic to use . what be the Minister do to make sure that tonnage of aid be get to the right place ? clearly , the israeli authority seem to be not able to deliver on their duty under international law to get aid to the right place . what more can he do to put pressure on the israeli authority to do what be legally bind and right to do ? the hon . Lady make an important point that we need to think not just about truck , but tonnage . I will speak to the Development Minister about this particular issue and make sure that we have extra focus on it . we need the truck , but we need the tonnage , as well . it be vital . it be good to finally hear those on the Labour Front Bench seemingly find their voice on this issue , after ten of thousand of death and month of shameful prevarication , although they be still willing to sell arm to Israel . on the UK Government ' s policy on arm sale , the criterion for halt arm sale do not require a legal confirmation that a breach of international humanitarian law have occur , but only that it might have occur . do the Minister not consider that the ongoing investigation by the International Criminal Court of war crime and crime against humanity and the consideration by the International Court of Justice of potential genocide be indication that breach of international law might have occur ? in any event , why be we so keen to sell arm to someone we have be press so hard to cease operation ? we continue to have grave concern about the humanitarian situation on the ground , but those be not sufficient to undermine our judgment that Israel be commit to comply with international humanitarian law in general . we have already talk at length about the export licence and our control around that . we recognise Israel have the right to defend itself . the belgian Foreign Minister state that Israel be engage in " tactic of starvation " . last month , the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Ireland state : " the use of starvation as a weapon of war be a blatant violation of international humanitarian law . " this month , Belgium ' s Minister of Development and Co - operation state that Israel ' s use of hunger as a weapon of war be " a flagrant violation of international law " . the israeli Defence Minister be on record as say : " I have order a complete siege on the Gaza Strip . there will be no electricity , no food , no fuel , everything be closed . we be fight human animal and we be act accordingly " . when will this Government wake up to the reality that innocent Palestinians be die and take action to stop they die from hunger and starvation ? we be work hard to get the aid in , as I have highlight . that be critical . we be also call out the israeli Government , recognise that too many civilian have be kill . we want to see Israel take great care to limit its operation to military target and to avoid harm civilian and destroy home , as he have indicate . the world be astound by the fact that we be have to rely on sea corridor and air drop for the delivery of aid when we know that the only way we will prevent starvation in the hell that be Gaza be through mass truck supply and UNRWA - assist delivery . will the Minister explain the Government ' s assessment of whether the current supply of aid through truck , air and sea be sufficient to prevent imminent famine ? we have see limited improvement — I have highlight that — but we want to see Israel stand up to its commitment to increase the total number of aid truck to at least 500 a day and increase the capacity through the Jordan land corridor to 100 truck a day . More work be clearly require , and it be important to highlight that this be not just for be ; it be an international priority where we be work with our partner . give the horrific scale of killing and the starvation of Palestinians , and especially child , we need an immediate ceasefire and the release of hostage , and the Netanyahu Government must allow aid into Gaza unimpeded , rather than continually block it . there also need to be a process of investigation , accountability and justice , whether through the ICC , the ICJ or the UN commission of inquiry , give the serious allegation of war crime , but the UK Conservative Government do not presently find any of those route acceptable . will the Minister please highlight which of those accountability mechanism they find acceptable ? we respect the role and independence of the ICJ , but , to the point that the hon . Member raise , our view be that Israel ' s action in Gaza can not be describe as genocide . we remain clear that formal determination of genocide should be base on the final judgment by a competent court . will the Minister explain the rationale behind advocate a humanitarian pause in the bombing to allow medical aid , food , water and basic supply into Gaza and then — presumably — permit the killing to start up again ? that have puzzle I for some time . bombing civilian be a crime against humanity . be it not time for humanity to be reassert and for the ceasefire , which so many have call for , to start ? the Government ' s position be that we need a pause — we need to get aid in and hostage out — and then work for the condition for a last peace . we must also recognise Hamas ' s role in get to this point . in those condition , we need to remove Hamas ' s capacity to launch attack against Israel and ensure that they be no long in charge in Gaza . may I say a thank you to my constituent who last weekend organise an Eid gather for Palestinians in the north ? when I be there , I meet Gaza health and aid worker and hear lot of story . one of they be about Nuzha Awad , a lady who have give birth to triplet . her baby should have weigh about 6 lb to 8 lb each , but they weigh just 2 lb each and have not even develop their thigh because of malnutrition . accord to confirm report , we know that 27 child have die so far of malnutrition . we send in RAF jet to support Israel when it be attack , yet Israel do not heed the British Government ' s warning to get humanitarian aid in . so people be rightly ask : why be our government so weak on save the life of child ? some of the point that the hon . member make be tragic and heart - rend to hear . I reiterate that we want to see change and be push for change , and we be take action to ensure that more aid be available . we just need to get the condition to enable aid to come forward and through to the people who need it on the ground in Gaza . when the israeli Government be not listen to the Minister about aid get in , why be the Government still consider sell arm to Israel ? when we be plead with the israeli Government so much , the Government can not accept that situation and continue to sell those arm . we be work hard with the israeli Government on humanitarian issue , as I have highlight . our export control be in place , and our approach remain unchanged . we must recognise that Israel have the right to defend itself . the Minister say that the Government recognise the importance of open a northern crossing , but as my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) say early , almost no aid be enter northern Gaza . the situation everywhere be most desperate . exactly what pressure be the Government apply to ensure that route to northern Gaza become operational as soon as possible and remain open ? that be part of our ongoing diplomatic effort with Israel and our like - minded partner who be commit to provide aid and get that in . one of the key thing that Israel be commit to be that northern route . the hon . Member make that important point , and that be one of the element that we continue to urge Israel to stand up and commit to . F - 35s be reduce Gaza to dust . during Pinochet ' s brutal rule in Chile , the worker of Rolls - Royce in East Kilbride refuse to manufacture part for the chilean air force and be hail as hero . why would the UK Government not follow that humanitarian example and stop export the part for F - 35s ? it be because we have get one of the most robust arm export regime in the world , and , as I have say , we need to recognise Israel ' s right to defend itself . the hon . Member probably notice what happen over the weekend with the attack from Iran . that situation be not just important for what happen in Israel — vital though that be for those involve in Gaza — but have ripple effect that be destabilise the region , and that have global implication as well . we be tell a month ago that 1 . 1 million people face catastrophic level of food insecurity in Gaza , and that we be reduce to air drop . the situation in northern Gaza be horrific , and it be a consequence of political choice . the World Food Programme have say that the area have be largely cut off from aid , and have record the high level of catastrophic hunger in the world . twenty - eight innocent child be report to have die of malnutrition and dehydration because of political choice . what meaningful , strong action will the Government take to ensure that international law be uphold and all Palestinians have a right to food ? I have already highlight the step that we be take as well as the commitment that Israel have make . we be ask Israel to step up to its commitment . it have make limited progress , and we want to see much further progress to help those people on the ground . accord to unicef , one child in Gaza be kill or injure on average every 10 minute . yesterday , israeli occupy force strike a playground in the Maghazi refugee camp in central Gaza , massacre at least 11 people and injure many more . the deputy Foreign Secretary have boast about how proud his Government be to be supply Israel with arm , even while it commit such crime against humanity and have be find by the ICJ to be plausibly commit genocide against the palestinian people . will the Minister tell we categorically whether arm export from Britain be use in the strike on the Maghazi refugee camp , and , for that matter , whether the three british aid worker who be kill at the beginning of the month be kill by weapon manufacture in Britain ? as I have already highlight , we have strong export control . to the important point that the hon . Member make , we have ask Israel for an assessment and an independent investigation to take place as to what happen in that situation . we continue to call for the immediate release of all hostage , for an immediate ceasefire , for unhindered humanitarian aid , for adherence to international law and accountability for any breach , and for immediate international effort for a two - state solution . on aid and international law , between 6 and 12 April , 41 % of UN co - ordinate mission to northern Gaza , where famine be under way and child be die by the minute , be deny . the israeli authority ’ obligation to facilitate humanitarian aid be a matter of law . it be not just about access ; it must also be able to get to where it be need . I appreciate the difficulty in which the Minister have find himself today but , again , why be the Government so ineffective in get support ? we have have month upon month of say that thing will happen , and they never do . why have they be so ineffective and what will they do to make sure that Israel adhere to our request ? I have highlight that there have be limit progress , but we have make some progress in our argument with Israel , along with international partner . now we be press for those other area to be deal with , include northern access , which be a vital priority . we be push hard . the Foreign Secretary be once again in the region this week to address these issue . last week , Samantha Power of the US Agency for International Development tell Congress that they it be witness famine in northern Gaza . let we be honest — to the wide global population , it appear that Israel be use starvation as a weapon of war , whether through the supply into the country or by intimidate the worker who should be distribute it . do the Minister share the US assessment of the situation , and will he commit to support and restore the funding of UNRWA ? we remain concerned about the implication of target civilian . too many have be kill , and we want Israel to take great care to limit its operation to military target . as I have say repeatedly , we await the Colonna report about the UNRWA situation , and we will examine our response . some 500 health - care worker have be kill in Gaza in the past six month . that be more than the total number of healthcare worker kill in all conflict around the world in the previous two year . do the Minister agree with Professor Nick Maynard , the british surgeon recently return from Gaza , that healthcare worker be be deliberately target ? if so , why be the UK still supply arm to Israel ? I have address the point about arm . the hon . Gentleman ' s point about protect aid worker be important . we believe that the Israelis need to do much more to protect they . that include the guarantee deconfliction of aid convoy and other humanitarian worker , to ensure that they can operate safely . in answer to question , I have hear the Minister repeatedly talk about pressure on Israel , encourage Israel and hope that Israel will respond . when will he stand at the Dispatch Box and accept that for all the Government ' s urge and encouraging , the situation be get bad ? in concrete term , what will the Government do now to get aid through , to make sure that Israel live up to the promise that it make and do not deliver on ? I ask the Minister not to give I an answer about the strength of our arm sale licence regime . how can it be morally right to provide arm to Israel that be be use in the killing of woman and child and worsen the humanitarian crisis ? as I have highlight , we have treble the amount of aid that we be put in to support those people . we recognise that Israel be an occupy power , so we have to urge and work with the Israelis to enable these thing to happen . the important thing be that we be see limited progress . as I say , now we be push and press to see further progress in achieve the aim and the commitment that Israel have already set out . I hope the Minister remember Hind Rajab , the six - year - old palestinian girl who be trap in a car with nothing but a mobile phone and her own cry for help while the paramedic be struggle to get to she . they and Hind be kill that day . an IDF investigation conclude that its force be not present within fire range of the vehicle . a subsequent Washington Post investigation disagree . I raise that case not only to remember Hind but because whenever the Israel Defence Force ' s action result in increase civilian suffering or reduce humanitarian aid — as in the killing of aid worker — the Government ' s response be to call on Israel to investigate itself . be that really the only way to ensure accountability and reduce suffering ? on the specific point about aid worker , I highlight that we also want an independent review . it be important that they be protect , and we need to understand the situation on the ground . the hon . Lady highlight , importantly , that we be also urge Israel to take great care in limit its operation and the impact they have on civilian . follow the iranian attack over the weekend , we be one step away from the precipice of a regional war . the comment of the Foreign Secretary this afternoon follow his meeting with the israeli Government — that he believe Israel be minded to act — should worry we all . the british Government rightly emphasise the need for de - escalation , but do they recognise that de - escalation must begin in Gaza ? we need to de - escalate the whole situation and do everything we can to use our influence in that task . we have highlight already what we be ask and urge Israel to do from a humanitarian perspective in term of their state aim to carry out further military action in Rafah . there be the wide area as well . we be work with our partner in the region and around the world to find way to deescalate the situation more widely . it be multifacete and really complicated , but we be find way to bring that influence to bear , because we do not want this to escalate any far . every member of this House know that it be that great conservative statesman who say that all it take for evil to prevail be for good people to stand by and do nothing . today the Minister , who we know be a good man , must have be embarrassed . he stand there , wrung his hand and tell we that our Prime Minister have plead with the israeli Prime Minister . when do the party of Edmund Burke become the party of complicity and appeasement ? I be not sure that the question deserve an answer . we have already highlight cross - party that these situation be complex . we be work incredibly hard with all our partner — I think that be recognise by the Opposition Front - Bench team . it be challenging , but please let we not lower the tone in that way . currently , 1 . 1 million civilian be at risk of starvation due to the israeli aid blockade . that be clearly a breach of humanitarian law and the interim ICJ ruling . the UK Government tacitly recognise the breach , because they be try to bypass the israeli blockade use the Royal Navy . the UK Government ' s incoherent position be that rather than call out Israel , they be urge and plead Israel to change tack , while still sell arm to Israel and withholding funding to UNRWA . the interim Colonna report confirm UNRWA ' s neutrality . all other major donor apart from the US have restore funding . what be make the UK Government wait for the final Colonna report before restore funding ? be they sit on intelligence that be somehow not available to all the other partner ? we have make it clear that we want to see the full report , and then we will make a decision . between 6 and 12 April , 41 % of UN co - ordinate aid mission to northern Gaza be impede or deny access . the israeli authority ’ obligation to facilitate humanitarian support be about not just get truck in but get aid to where it be need . that be a matter of international humanitarian law . do the Minister really think that less than 60 % of aid get in be an acceptable rate ? do that really show the Government ' s diplomatic effort to be successful ? we be see some success enable and encourage Israel to allow more truck in . as I say , it be limited progress but it be progress . clearly , a lot more need to be do . we be work with our partner to make sure we can do that . testimony from an israeli intelligence officer reveal that IDF soldier be authorise to kill 20 uninvolved civilian for a single Hamas operative . Israel be frequently in breach of the principle of proportionality and , frankly , UK diplomacy be not work . what will it take for the Government to admit finally that Israel be breach international humanitarian law and to cease arm sale ? we have talk about this a number of time in this urgent question in our response . [ interruption . ] and I be just about to answer that particular question ; thank for the encouragement . we have grave concern about the humanitarian access , but that be not sufficient to undermine our judgment that Israel be commit to comply with IHL in general . last week , Samantha Power , the administrator of USAID , tell Congress that northern Gaza be now experience famine and that almost no aid be enter northern Gaza . do the Minister agree that the situation be intolerable and unacceptable ? what exactly be the Government do to make sure that it change urgently ? the situation be incredibly challenging . as I have say already in answer to an early question , one of the commitment Israel have make be about access in the north . we continue to urge Israel to live up its commitment , so that aid can come in from the north , as well as there be more aid more generally , to help those on the ground in Gaza . Jim Henderson from Cornwall serve in the Royal Marines for seven year before work in Gaza . the aid convoy he be support be travel from the north . it be follow the right procedure and remain on the correct route . it be understandable that the death of Jim and his fellow Brits should have seize our attention here at home and lead to an investigation by the IDF , but the UN Secretary - General say a fortnight ago that the death of all 196 aid worker kill in Gaza in the past six month should be subject to independent investigation . do the Minister agree ? I have already highlight how important it be that we urge Israel to do much more to protect aid worker . we want to make sure there be a guarantee deconfliction of aid convoy , and we need to do other humanitarian work to help . I pay tribute to the individual who have do heroic work , include those the hon . Gentleman highlight . I think he will recognise that the individual he refer to be a constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) , who , as I understand it , have be work closely with the family and I be grateful to she for that . the Minister have say on a number of occasion today how complex the humanitarian situation be on the ground . UNRWA be the aid agency with most of the logistical and organisational network to deliver in that situation . on Monday , the Prime Minister be ask a number of time about the interim report that he say the Government have receive . will the Minister commit to publish it in full ? will the discussion he say he be have with ally on what should happen next be publish , so we know what be hold back the UK and why it be the last country not to fund UNRWA ? the thing hold we back from sign off our approach be see the report . that be what we need to wait for . it be come very , very soon and we will be respond to it in full . the director - general of the World Health Organisation , Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus , have talk about the devastating destruction of Gaza ' s hospital , and the dead body still be remove from the ruin of Al - Shifa Hospital . will the United Kingdom fund the WHO and other charity on the ground in Gaza to rebuild the shattered hospital that have be destroy under israeli bombardment ? will he deliver the ceasefire necessary to allow that construction to happen , because it can not happen while there be no construction material go into Gaza ? the hon . Lady make a characteristically thoughtful and important point about reconstruction . our immediate approach now be about the pause and get aid in . that have to be the top priority right now . then , as we look forward , let we get the condition in place to have a sustainable ceasefire . as part of that , we can work through how that reconstruction will take place . as I say to the Prime Minister in his statement on Monday , the mother of James Kirby , one of the other aid worker who lose his life while try to deliver aid through World Central Kitchen , be my constituent . the family want answer , and I would appreciate it if the Minister pass on that message while the Foreign Secretary be in the region . give the attack on healthcare worker mention by my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) , as well as the attack on people try to deliver food aid , will he explain what the plea for guarantee deconfliction actually mean , because they do not seem to be work ? I also pay tribute , as the hon . Lady have , to James Kirby . our thought and prayer be with his family . the work we be do to raise that point with Israel be important . we want to find way to ensure that we deconflict aid convoy . I think Israel recognise that there be challenge there . it will be carry out its own report , and a far independent review will be need to help find way to ensure that deconfliction be meaningful and strong . may I first thank the Minister very much for his response to all the question ? it be clear that he have compassion and that he want to answer in the good way , so we thank he for that . last week I have occasion to be in Israel and visit some of the kibbutzim where innocent jewish people be murder , and the Nova music festival where over 1 , 000 young people be murder , and meet some of the family . all that be a result of Hamas terrorism on the israeli people . Hamas be the reason we have a humanitarian crisis in Gaza . what discussion have take place about open wide channel to allow medical aid in and ill people out and medical intervention free from harassment and intervention from Hamas ? I thank the hon . member , whom I regard as a very good friend , for his comment . he be right to highlight the role of Hamas and what they have do to get to this situation . we be work collectively to figure out how we can well address the situation . medical supply be key and we will be provide they . we be provide support on shelter and have be help with air drop . across the House , it be clear that more need to be do . there be frustration and I be grateful to all colleague across the House for , on most occasion , their measure comment . I understand their concern . I be also pleased that member have not resort to cheap party politic . these be incredibly difficult challenge and I be very grateful for the question and the challenge that have be provide . it be constructive , and we will use it to help make the case to those on the ground who need to hear it . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . point of order come after urgent question and statement , unless they be directly relate to the UQ we have just have . it be , Madam Deputy Speaker . then I call Cherilyn Mackrory . I apologise for not give you forward notice of my point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker , but it relate to something that just occur in the urgent question . the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) refer to the recent death of one of my constituent without notify I . I raise this point of order because this be an incredibly sensitive time and I have connect with the family through the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office consular service , which be the right and proper thing to do . I be nervous that my constituent ' s name have be take to score point across the Chamber , when it be completely inappropriate to do so . I wonder if you could advise I on how we can avoid that in future . I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order . I note the exchange to which she refer . it do occur to I , as the exchange be take place , that the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton should have think twice before mention the name — in very , very , very sensitive , sad and indeed tragic circumstance — of a constituent of another Member of Parliament . I wonder if he would like to apologise . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . first , I pay tribute to the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) for her work on behalf of her constituent . it be the duty of everybody in this Chamber to work as closely as we can on sensitive casework . clearly , she have do that . I should add that I use my point about an individual who have , unfortunately , suffer a terrible , awful circumstance to draw a parallel with the 196 aid worker who have be kill in this awful , terrible war . I thank the hon . gentleman for respond to the point of order from the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Cherilyn Mackrory ) . we must be very careful , because this be as sensitive as a subject possibly can be . there be bereaved people who will be watch our proceeding ; my heart go out to they , and I be sure that the whole House feel the same . however , I understand the hon . Lady ' s point , and I think the hon . Gentleman have say that he will be more careful in future . afghan Refugees : deportation from Pakistan ( Urgent Question ) to ask the Secretary of State for the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office if he will make a statement on the deportation of afghan refugee from Pakistan to Afghanistan . the United Kingdom have a long - stand and close relationship with Pakistan . we engage regularly with the Government of Pakistan to advance key priority and interest , include those relate to human right and adherence to international law . we be closely monitor Pakistan ' s policy on the deportation of Afghanistan ' s citizen , and we be work with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Organisation for Migration to ensure that Pakistan adhere to its human right obligation with respect to those affect . we understand that the recently elect Government of Pakistan intend to resume their programme of deportation from mid - April follow a winter pause , although that have not yet be formally announce . while we respect Pakistan ' s sovereign right to control its border , the UK , alongside the international and donor community , be urge Pakistan to do so in accordance with its international obligation . the UK have commit £ 18 . 5 million to the International Organisation for Migration in Afghanistan to support vulnerable undocumented returnee from Pakistan and Iran . as part of that work we have be engage closely with the Government of Pakistan on these measure , and they have assure we of their support in relation to prevent the deportation of Afghans eligible for resettlement in the UK under the afghan relocation and assistance policy or the afghan citizen resettlement scheme . since the formation of the new Pakistani Cabinet , the Foreign Secretary and the british high commissioner have receive assurance from Foreign Minister Dar , during discussion on 25 and 28 March respectively , that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will support our relocation work . we continue to work closely with UNHCR and the IOM to ensure that all Afghans who have be find to be eligible for resettlement in the UK under the ARAP or the acr — include eligible family member — have be provide with the necessary documentation to verify that , and to prevent their deportation . say that Afghanistan be not a safe place be something of an understatement . nearly two third of the afghan population be in need of humanitarian aid by the end of last year , and , in the word of the United Nations high commissioner , " human right in Afghanistan be in a state of collapse " . the restriction on woman and girl amount to nothing less than a gender apartheid . Afghanistan be not a safe place for anyone , but it be particularly unsafe for the Afghans who work alongside western force and diplomatic effort — for civil society advocate , for woman who formerly hold high - profile political or legal role , for member of the LGBTQ community , and for the many other who be force to flee when the Taliban take control . many of those who flee to Pakistan be desperately await resettlement to safe country , include the UK . yesterday , report suggest that Pakistan have embark on the deportation of Afghans back to Afghanistan , and resettlement , the hope of safety and of be reunite with family , be now at risk of be completely lose . for some of those wait to come here the route be open , but the process be achingly slow . many await family reunion , which it be promise would start this spring , while other believe that they will be eligible to apply to come to safety in the UK under ACRS route 3 pathway 2 , as yet unopened nearly three year after the fall of Kabul . I urge the Minister ' s Home Office colleague to act in this regard . Pakistan ' s decision to deport the migrant whom they deem to be illegal be deeply worrying . during the first round of deportation in October last year — which be the subject of an urgent question from the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) — there be news report of Afghans eligible for resettlement here be arrest during immigration enforcement . there be every reason to believe that that will happen again , and , indeed , this round put even more people at risk . afghan in Pakistan be mean to hold a Pakistan - issue afghan citizen card , but there be report of long delay in the processing of application leave people undocumente through no fault of their own . more worryingly , it have be report that the late round of deportation will even include those carry card . effectively , that put every Afghan in Pakistan at risk , regardless of their reason for be there . the UK have a responsibility here , not just to those Afghans whom we promise safety but in relation to the region as a whole . we can all understand the desire to flee from persecution , but we also understand the difficulty of support system in Pakistan in respond when those who be flee reach their border . if we want to show that the UK be a global power and a global force for good , we must act . what step be the Department take to ensure that all individual eligible for resettlement or reunification in the UK be able to register themselves as be legally in Pakistan , what step be it take to prevent the deportation of Afghans in Pakistan if they be likely to be eligible to settle in the UK , what step be it take with our foreign ally to encourage Pakistan to halt these repatriation , and what step can the UK take to help Pakistan support the refugee population ? People be be send back to Afghanistan now , with all the danger that that entail . we must act . it be good to have the opportunity to discuss this issue , and the hon . Lady have raise important question , but I can repeat the assurance that we have now receive from the newly elect Pakistani Government , who have themselves repeat the assurance that we receive from the previous Government that all Afghans who be eligible for our various UK scheme will be exempt from deportation . there have be two instance of temporary detention when the british high commission have intervene , and that have go well . since November , all Afghans eligible for resettlement in the UK have be provide with identification in the form of a letter from the british high commission , and that be be consider acceptable by the Government of Pakistan . none of those people have be detain or deport as a result of the letter , which constitute our assurance , through the high commission , that we be committed to ensure that those Afghans who be eligible to come to the UK be under our umbrella of protection . I call James Heappey . gosh , Madam Deputy Speaker ! it be five year since my last question , and it be the first time that I have ever be call first . it seem curious that we be deal with a question about the sovereign decision of another Government . while the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) want to challenge Ministers on our representation to that Government , I think it important to reflect that throughout my time " own " the ARAP scheme in the Ministry of Defence , the Pakistani Government be extraordinarily supportive of everything we ask of they . will my right hon . friend join I in pay tribute to our high commissioner and her brilliant team at post in Islamabad , but also in make clear our continue gratitude to the Government of Pakistan for the incredible flexibility that they show in facilitate both ARAP and the ACRS ? it be a pleasure to be able to discuss this issue in a new way with my right hon . friend . we have be work closely on these issue within Government , and his commitment to ensure that those eligible for these scheme have be able to come to the UK have be , without exception , incredible . let I just add that since October last year we have be able to complete 24 charter flight , and have relocate more than 5 , 500 individual under the ongoing ARAP scheme . [ Official Report , 29 April 2024 ; Vol . 749 , c . 2wc . ] ( Correction ) I certainly pay tribute to the incredible , tireless effort of our british high commissioner , Jane Marriott , and her wonderful team in Islamabad , who continue to work day in , day out with the Government of Pakistan , their official and their military , and help we to ensure that we can bring those Afghans safely to the UK in due course . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) on present the urgent question , and on her work across the House in relation to , in particular , the woman who be suffer in these circumstance . although Afghanistan no long occupy the headline , all of we — on both side of the House — know that the situation in the country be stark . woman be live under a gender apartheid , and the man and woman who fight bravely for a well Afghanistan alongside british armed service be often target and kill by the Taliban , as have be confirm by the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan . Labour have always be clear that we owe many Afghans a debt of gratitude for support british aim in Afghanistan . the Minister mention the figure of 5 , 500 , but how many people do she estimate now require protection so that they be not repatriate back across the border ? will the Minister also answer three other brief question for the information of the House ? first , could she detail the discussion she have have with the Pakistani Government to halt or at least limit the return to Afghanistan ? secondly , what step be she take to belatedly bring to safety at - risk Afghans , particularly former member of the afghan security force , especially now that certain member be no long in the government and may not be there to make the case for these vulnerable individual ? thirdly , what step be be take to commit to a strategy across the board to support woman and girl in Afghanistan , to give they hope that they have not be forget , and to recognise the important work do in these Houses of Parliament by Baroness Kennedy and other on gender apartheid ? as the hon . Lady highlight , my right hon . friend the Member for Wells ( James Heappey ) have be a stalwart in make sure that those who be eligible for ARAP , and indeed the wide cohort in the acr , have be move forward . we have an agreement , and the new Government of Pakistan be support it . where we indicate from the high commission that people be eligible for the scheme , the pakistani Government be comfortable with our bring they across . as I say , the number since October illustrate the continue repatriation of these people to the UK . there be daily discussion between the high commission and various part of the Government of Pakistan , as require to ensure we make progress on all those issue , and we continue to bring people across . the hon . Lady be absolutely right : my right hon . friend the Member for Wells have be an absolute champion of make sure that those who be eligible go through the system . I can reassure she that my right hon . friend the Member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) , who have now take over that brief in the Ministry of Defence , will continue to ensure that as the programme roll out , it go at pace . I can also give the reassurance expect by those who be in Pakistan and look to come to the UK for safety . my right hon . friend know there be people who , in the process of make their way to Pakistan from Afghanistan , become undocumented but who be none the less entitled to resettlement here , either because they help we and our military or because of their work in the legal system . do she agree that it be important for the Pakistani Government to continue to show enough flexibility so that when people show that they be entitle to come here and that become document , they be protect during the process ? my right hon . and learn Friend be absolutely right about the importance of make sure that all those who be eligible , have apply and be be or have be process through the scheme , and who may still be in Pakistan and have not yet make it here to the UK , have support from the team at the high commission and have letter of support , so that the Government of Pakistan know that they be within our ARAP - eligible umbrella . that will continue to be the case until such time as we have be able to bring they all to the UK . I call the SNP spokesman . it be only right and proper that the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) have bring forward this urgent question today , so congratulation to they . I note that my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) , who chair the Joint Committee on Human Rights , be in her place . her Committee ' s report highlight that the Prime Minister of Pakistan have reference the Rwanda scheme as their justification for deport Afghans back into the hand of the Taliban . do the Minister agree that the afghan man and woman who fight with british force and be not bring out to safety through Operation Pitting , yet who manage to flee the Taliban and use small boat to cross the channel and get to the UK , should not be send to Rwanda ? or be the message from the present british Government to our ally , " we ' ll use you , but we ' ll drop you when we ' ve have our way with you " ? we have discuss the question of Rwanda a lot in recent week . we consider Rwanda to be a safe country , as do the international community . I do not think it be comparable to Afghanistan , but we be continue to ensure that all those who work alongside british force , have apply and be eligible for ARAP , and those who be not in the military space but who have apply and be eligible for the acr , be able to have protection through the letter from the high commission in Pakistan , while we look to bring they to the UK in due course . that will continue to be the case until the programme be complete . of the estimate 1 . 7 million refugee on the border , many will be Christians or member of other minority religious sect . what safeguard be the UK Government put in place , and what conversation be they have with the Pakistan Government , to make sure that those Christians be not return to Afghanistan , where they will be persecute , and that that faith can shine through ? my hon . friend raise an important point . as I say in my statement early , we will always continue to remind the new Government of Pakistan , as we do the previous one , of their international obligation around some of these incredibly difficult issue . we have a very good relationship with the Government of Pakistan , so that be a conversation that we continue to have daily . I be a really proud foster parent to an afghan refugee — actually , I be now a grandmother — so I be grateful for the urgent question . I be really concerned about those who have be forcibly take out of Pakistan , and particularly about the report on those who be actually bear in Pakistan . it smack of a sick joke that , on one hand , we be talk about bring afghan refugee here , but on the other hand , tonight the Government will vote down the noble Lord Browne ' s amendment to prevent Afghans who support we and our british armed force from be pack off to Rwanda . my question be really simple : how can we show a moral stance on the issue today , when the Government will be vote down the amendment on Afghans who be at risk ? it be lovely to hear of that personal commitment to a refugee from the hon . member ' s family . such story be so important , and it be lovely to hear they bring here and champion , because that show that the commitment be about much more than just word . I congratulate she on become a granny , as it be . it be a lovely story to share . importantly , the hon . Lady raise the question of those who work and serve alongside our armed force or in other area . the two incredibly generous scheme — ARAP and the acr — be there precisely to provide the opportunity for those who wish to apply , and who be eligible , to come and have safe harbour in the UK . the scheme , particularly ARAP , will continue for as long as need , and we encourage those who have not apply — though the number suggest that very large number have already apply — to do so . as I say , they be long - stand and very generous scheme , which will continue . week in , week out , we be able to bring the incredibly brave people who serve and support our armed force to the UK . my afghan diaspora in Bolton take this matter very seriously under the leadership of Dr Aziz , who I should also note be open a new medical centre next week in Bolton . what discussion have the Government have with the pakistani high commissioner to the UK to make sure that those who be eligible will not be adversely affect by the 15 April deadline to deport Afghans from the country , which the Pakistani Government be now work to ? my hon . friend raise an important point , and it be good to hear that a new medical centre be open , which I be sure will provide important service for the whole community . as I say , our conversation with the british high commissioner in Islamabad , senior official here and the pakistani high commissioner base in London continue day in , day out . we have a very close relationship . our commitment to provide letter of support for those who be in Pakistan and wait to come to the UK because they have be find to be eligible for one of the two scheme be respect by the new Government of Pakistan , as it be by the previous one . as my hon . friend the Member for West Dunbartonshire ( Martin Docherty - Hughes ) have already mention , in our report on the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill , the Joint Committee on Human Rights warn that other nation might be influence by the way in which the United Kingdom treat its international law obligation . that be early this year , and we note at that stage that the Prime Minister of Pakistan have already refer to the UK Government ' s Rwanda policy in defence of his decision to deport afghan refugee . I suggest to the Minister that this be quite a serious matter . do she appreciate that while Pakistan ' s policy might not be identical to the British Government ' s Rwanda policy , the fact that the British Government have be prepare to set to one side their international treaty obligation in respect of refugee and asylum seeker act as an encouragement to other country that wish to do the same ? I would not compare Rwanda , which we consider to be a safe country for those who be ineligible for asylum here , to Afghanistan . importantly , those afghan refugee who be eligible to come here under one of our two incredibly broad and generous scheme have that layer of protection until such time as they get here , through the high commission and the relationship that we have with the Government of Pakistan , who be very clear that they would not look to deport any of those afghan refugee who be eligible to come to the UK . can my right hon . friend the Minister explain the assessment that have be make of the adequacy of the humanitarian assistance available to those at the Pakistan - Afghanistan border ? my hon . friend raise an important point . in term of the UK ' s commitment , we continue to be one of the large donor to Afghanistan in a number of humanitarian area , with £ 130 million in aid last year . while not wish to speak out of turn — the Development Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , be not here ; he have be in Paris work on an ethiopian package — we hope to be able to invest something near £ 150 million in the come financial year in support of those humanitarian challenge for Afghanistan . it be possible — indeed , likely — that some of the Afghans in Pakistan be those whose ARAP application be currently be reassess by the Ministry of Defence . the outgoing Minister for the Armed Forces , the right hon . member for Wells ( James Heappey ) , from whom we hear just a moment ago , update the House on this just recently , and I be due a response to a write question on the progress on this from the Ministry of Defence today . it be good to see the Minister for Defence People and Families , the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) , sit with the Minister but , give the urgency of this matter , can I ask the right hon . Lady to give an assurance that her Department be work very closely with his Department to ensure that the application of any potential ARAP - entitle people in Pakistan be be reassess as quickly as possible ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point , and I be comfortable in commit to he that he will receive the reply he hope to have by the close of play . he be absolutely right to say that the FCDO and the MOD be work hand in glove . the team be incredibly well join up , and I want to give they a gentle shout - out because they work tirelessly to make sure that everyone ' s application be properly scrutinise . as I say , these scheme be very generous and we will continue to run they until such time as we be able to bring all of those eligible back to the UK for safety . it be absolutely ludicrous that , three year after the fall of Afghanistan , we be still talk about people that the UK Government have leave behind . it be absolutely appalling and incompetent that those who support the UK mission in Afghanistan have be so woefully neglect . can the Minister tell I exactly how many people be wait for the UK Government to get their act together and process their acr and ARAP application ? as I say , these be broad and generous scheme and I can update the House on they today . the figure I have in front of I show that since October last year we have be able to complete 24 charter flight and relocate over 5 , 500 individual . we will continue to work on that with our high commissioner and her team in Islamabad and the team here , and through the Ministry of Defence and the team in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities . we have an incredible team of official work together to make sure that we bring all those who be eligible back to the UK . while I acknowledge the role that Pakistan have play in host Afghans after Operation Pitting , we need to recognise that many of the people be return from Pakistan will be at significant risk . on top of that , many Afghans be incorrectly advise about which scheme to apply for and , as a consequence , may not even be in the process , so in addition to those who have start the process , there will be another cohort who have not start it because of the poor advice that they be give . give that the ACRS be not even open — there be no phase 4 open at this moment — what number of people be expect ? I have a constituent for whom this be really important . can the Minister tell we the number of people she be expect who be not in the process and who need to be accommodate ? as I say , the ARAP programme be very generous , and it remain open — and the ACRS ? on the acr , obviously the first part have be run , and we will continue to run these scheme as we need to . [ interruption . ] the hon . Lady be welcome to write to I if she have a specific constituent connection that she wish to raise , and I will be happy to look at that , but the scheme continue to work , and our team be work day in , day out , to make sure that those who be eligible be able to get to the UK . I have already raise the issue of the special force and those who might now be stick in Pakistan , but there be also the matter of those work in local government who may have be magistrate and other . afghan family member in my constituency suggest that the way that this have be handle could cause long - term reputational damage to the UK . what be the Minister ' s assessment ? the hon . Gentleman highlight the fact that the review of further potential eligible applicant be ongoing by the Ministry of Defence , and as decision on eligibility be make , they will of course have the support of those who be already in the scheme and eligible to come to the UK . I be very proud of this broad and generous scheme , and I have no doubt that it will continue to run for some time while we bring many of these refugee to the UK . I thank the Minister , as always , for her response . what step will the Government take , not only to provide safe passage and route for Afghans and ally to reach the UK , but to provide they with safe legal status ? I give the example of the case of one of my constituent , who serve in Afghanistan in the Army . alongside he serve an Afghani . that Afghani have to leave Afghanistan with his family and flee to Pakistan . I meet he in Pakistan almost three year ago . the point I want to make be that if we can get that gentleman and his family — his wife and four child — to the Strangford constituency , we will get he a job and house , and we will make sure that his child be educate . he need a visa to ensure that he get here , and if the Minister can process his application correctly , the good people of Strangford will do the rest . I have absolute confidence that the community of Strangford will wrap their arm around those refugee who come to the UK , and if there be a particular issue , the hon . Gentleman be very welcome to write to I . the british high commission in Islamabad be work constantly with those there who be eligible to do that paperwork . their number be quite extensive ; there be a lot of they . if there be a particular case that he would like to raise with I , I would be happy to discuss it . Fireworks ( Noise Limits ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the maximum noise level of firework which may be sell to the public ; and for connected purpose . my Bill aim to tackle the antisocial use of firework , and would mean that firework available to the general public no long emit sound level that be equivalent to a pneumatic drill or a chainsaw ; instead , sound level would be cap at those equivalent to an alarm clock or a hairdryer . Fireworks can be a great source of entertainment , but they cause misery for many people and their pet right across this country . this Bill would stop shop sell loud firework to the general public , and so tackle this widespread problem . in my constituency of Bradford South , the misuse of firework be a 24 / 7 , round - the - clock blight , cause unacceptable stress and anxiety to people and their pet . I take this opportunity to highlight my petition on this subject , which be live on my website . it call for a reduction in the decibel limit for firework , and have already be sign by so many of my constituent . time and again , people in Bradford South tell I that their family life be disrupt as their child and pet be rudely awaken by the excessive noise of firework after 11 pm . in some case , that happen every single night . let off firework after 11 pm on a non - designate day be of course illegal , but as member right across this House will know , the policing and enforcement of firework legislation be , to put it mildly , a challenge . however , we can stop this antisocial behaviour involve firework by prevent people from buy excessively noisy firework from shop . this Bill hold the power to protect people from noise disturbance without impact the enjoyment of those who want to use firework . I emphasise that professional could still continue to use firework that exceed the 90 dB limit , so organise public display would not be affect . I be certainly not seek to prevent people from enjoy firework responsibly . of course , the antisocial use of firework be not just a Bradford problem but a nationwide problem . the Petitions Committee note in 2019 that thousand of people across the country have raise the issue of antisocial behaviour associate with firework . the Committee recognise that many people feel that current law be unenforceable and that complaint be not act on . local authority and police witness confirm that current legislation be challenge to enforce . firework be regulate in England under the Fireworks Act 2003 , which be introduce by my predecessor , and under the Pyrotechnic Articles ( Safety ) Regulations 2015 and the Explosives Regulations 2014 . there be four category of firework . category 4 firework present a high hazard risk , and can be supply only to those with specialist knowledge , but member of the public can purchase category 1 , 2 and 3 firework . category 3 firework present a low - to - medium hazard risk , and be intend for outdoor use . in the current legislation , the noise of firework that can be buy in shop must not exceed 120 dB , as measure by an appropriate method at the determined safety distance . however , that legislation be simply out of date and ineffective . with the public , police , and local authority complain of the inadequacy of those measure , it be time to change the law , stop the noise , and reduce the maximum decibel limit for publicly available firework . the dangerous and antisocial use of noisy firework can have a serious effect on people ' s health and cause distress . one constituent describe to I how the firework cause her window pane to shake , " 4 time a week , week after week " . we be talk about a persistent noise nuisance that people be unable to plan for , cause severe disturbance to pet and to people ' s everyday life . the antisocial use of firework can be distress for those with health condition and disability . parent give evidence to a parliamentary Committee speak of their experience in care for their child . one parent say : " our son have severe complex need include epilepsy , which can cause he to stop breathe … the public be able to set firework off at any time … we can not guarantee how loud they be go to be … my son scream , have a seizure and have to be administer oxygen . " one of my constituent in Bradford have speak to I about the impact on people with anxiety , include her mother . another speak of local ex - servicemen suffer from post - traumatic stress disorder who be constantly affect by loud , explosive firework . as one constituent tell I : " it ' s a disgrace that animal and human have to suffer this " . this issue must be deal with . the very first step must be to introduce new limitation on the noise level of publicly available firework . the proposal to limit those noise level to 90 db or less be support by lead animal charity ; the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals endorse my Bill and say : " we believe that by introduce measure like this , we can well prioritise the safety and well - being of animal and vulnerable people . . . we urge Parliamentarians across the House to work with Judith on these welcome proposal . " the current limit of 120 dB be base on study on the effect of noise on people , rather than animal . loud and high - pitch noise can adversely affect a large proportion of animal , whose hearing be often much more sensitive than a human ' s . accord to the RSPCA , around two third of animal be distress by at - home firework display . one of my constituent describe the harmful impact of firework on her pet : " my dog shake at the sound of the firework . . . when we try to cuddle and calm she down nothing work . . . I ' ve even be to the door shout ' please stop ' . " this show the desperation of animal lover . another one tell I : " my brother ' s dog die recently of a suspect heart attack . . . as he lie quiver under his bed , terrify of firework . " it be absolutely vital that animal and pet be consider alongside human need . the Bill would alter the legislation to ensure that the upper noise limit of publicly available firework be set at 90 dB . this modest but necessary change to the law would be life - change for so many people and animal right across this country . this be a Bill for those who fear the excessive noise of firework , a Bill for people whose pet be leave terrify by the noise of firework , a Bill that would end the broken sleep of child , and a Bill for those who want to end the misery that noisy firework bring . it be time that this House act to defend people across this country from the harmful impact of the illegal use of noisy firework . the Bill tackle the issue in a practical and workable way . it will take pressure off overstretch and under - resource police and law enforcement agency by eliminate the availability of noisy firework . importantly , the Bill also allow people to still enjoy firework — just in a way that mean that other people and animal will not be disturb . it aim to end the misery cause to people and their pet through the illegal and antisocial use of firework at all hour of the day and night , day in , day out , week after week . it put an end to this relentless bombardment , because people should not have to put up with this . the Bill provide this place with the opportunity to act . question put and agree to . order , that Judith Cummins , Kirsten Oswald , Marco Longhi , Mr Clive Betts , Peter Dowd , Rachael Maskell , Naz Shah and Imran Hussain present the Bill . Judith Cummins accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 26 April , and to be print ( Bill 200 ) . safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill consideration of Lords message I can confirm that nothing in the Lords message engage Commons financial privilege . clause 1 - introduction I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1d . with this it will be convenient to discuss : lord amendment 3e , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 6d , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 10d , and government motion to disagree . Madam Deputy Speaker , here we be again — you be in the Chair the last time we consider this Bill . this House have now vote several time , include in our strong endorsement of the Bill on Second and Third Readings . we need to bring this process to a conclusion to get the Bill on to the statute book and to get the flight off the ground as soon as possible . lord amendment 1d say we should have " due regard for " the Children Act 1989 , the Human Rights Act 1998 and the Modern Slavery Act 2015 , but why stop there ? why not the Equality Act 2010 , the Data Protection Act 2018 or any other Act ? why not list the whole statute book ? the answer be because it be not necessary . together , the treaty , the Bill and the evidence demonstrate that Rwanda be safe for relocate individual and that the Government ' s approach be tough but fair , be lawful , have justification and seek to uphold our international obligation . as I set out in our early debate , the Government respect the Supreme Court ' s decision , and it be precisely to address the Supreme Court ' s concern that we bring forward the treaty with the Republic of Rwanda . we have also prepare an evidence pack on what have change and how those concern be be address . I be strike by how reasonable Lord Hope ' s amendment seem in set up an independent body to assert that Rwanda be a safe place , as the Minister say . what could possibly be wrong with that ? I will address that amendment in a few minute , but there already be an independent body : the monitoring committee be part of the treaty . I be not speak to that amendment at the moment , but I hope to allay some of the hon . Lady ' s concern in a few minute ' time and then to see she in the voting Lobby . have consider the lengthy and extensive exchange throughout the Bill ' s passage , the Government now invite Parliament to agree with our assessment that the Supreme Court ' s concern have indeed be properly address and to enact the Bill accordingly . my party will support the Government , with the exception of one amendment . I have previously ask the Minister about freedom of religion or belief . we have that freedom in the United Kingdom , but some disquiet have be express to I , as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief , about that freedom in Rwanda . People have repeatedly ask I this question , which I sincerely and graciously ask the Minister to answer . be there the same freedom of religion or belief in Rwanda as we have in the United Kingdom ? I can not tell the hon . Gentleman that any two country ' system be the same . as I have previously say , those freedom be in Rwanda ' s constitution . he have previously ask I that question , and I have read out the precise wording . I endeavour to do so again before the end of this debate . many people share the Government ' s ambition to stop the boat . would these Lords amendment not muddle the legislation in a way that , once again , would leave we open to an unnecessary court challenge ? can he reassure we that , unamended , the Bill will do the job ? I know my right hon . friend have take a close interest in the Bill since the outset , and he be right . the amendment fall into two category : those that be simply unnecessary and those that be bad than unnecessary . the second group be wreck amendment deliberately design to prevent the very thing that the Bill be design to do — namely , stop the boat and get the plane off the ground . my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) have previously accuse I of repeat myself from time to time — heaven forfend — but he be right , because our approach be justify as a matter of parliamentary sovereignty and constitutional propriety . indeed , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) have even say that it be not unprecedented , and he be right . it also meet our international obligation . I reciprocate the Minister ' s comment because , in so far as I may have rather infelicitously suggest that he have repeat himself , I have to confess that I , too , have repeat myself . [ hon . member : " no ! ] yes , and I have do so for extremely good reason . my amendment , which I will not go into now , receive huge support in this House but be not accept by the Government . it still present a serious question that have to be answer . go back to what my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) say , there will come a time when this Bill be pass , hopefully in the immediate future , after which it will receive Royal Assent . at that very moment , as sure as anything , a claim will be make straightaway by Matrix Chambers , or by one of the other doughty chamber or whoever . the question will then be what the Supreme Court be go to do about it . that be the subject to which I keep return . as the Minister know only too well , when we say that we be concerned that the Bill will not work , it be not because we do not want it to work ; it be the exact opposite . we want it to work , but give that the opposition be still go on about international law , we need to be sure that the wording be clear and unambiguous so that the Court rule in the Government ' s favour . if not , it be all over . once again , I be very grateful to my hon . friend for his intervention . he have a tendency to repeat himself from time to time , as he admit , but he be right to do so . he have previously mention paragraph 144 of the Supreme Court ' s judgment , which I can cite in full : " in any event , the principle of legality do not permit a court to disregard an unambiguous expression of Parliament ' s intention such as that with which we be concern in the present case . " it have be our joint endeavour to ensure that this legislation be clear and unambiguous . on the treaty ' s implementation , I reiterate that clause 9 clearly set out that the Bill ' s provision come into force when the treaty enter into force , and that the treaty enter into force when the party have complete their internal procedure . we will ratify the treaty only once we agree with Rwanda that all the necessary implementation be in place for both country to comply with the obligation under the treaty . the monitoring committee , as I tell the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) , will undertake daily monitoring of the partnership for at least the first three month to ensure rapid identification and response to any issue . this enhanced phase will ensure that comprehensive monitoring and reporting take place in real time . will the Minister ensure that the report be lay before Parliament so that we can review it ? the monitoring committee ' s work be independent . commitment have already be make that there will be an update in Parliament , which be one of the amendment in lieu that we agree to last time . today , the right thing to do be to push back on all these amendment , which be either unnecessary or wreck . I appreciate the tone and manner in which the Minister be approach this difficult issue , but can he help on one matter ? I understand his point that some amendment might have the effect of delay the Bill , or might give rise to challenge and delay the policy objective , but I be troubled about why that should be think to apply to Lords amendment 3e , propose by Lord Hope of Craighead , who be a distinguished jurist and whose amendment be propose in moderate and unpartisan term . the rub of what will happen go forward be whether or not Rwanda be safe . Parliament can legislate , as a matter of sovereignty , to say that it be safe , but for the legislation to be effective we have to deal with the fact that we have choose to make ourselves judge of fact , but fact may change . give that we have put in place the mechanism , with the monitor committee and enhanced arrangement , which be all to the Government ' s credit , I struggle to see what be in the Hope amendment that undermine the operationality of the Bill , rather than help it . if fact do change , would it not be helpful to have such a mechanism to enable we to review that , on an informed basis ? I be grateful to my hon . and learn Friend for his engagement in the Chamber during previous debate and outside the Chamber . I hope over the next few minute to persuade he as to why this specific amendment be in fact unnecessary . I share his respect for the noble Lord Hope , as should we all , but I respectfully disagree with he that this amendment be necessary . let I explain why . the implementation of these provision will be keep under review by the independent monitoring committee that we have be discuss . that role be enhance by the treaty from that originally envisage . the commitment from our friend and ally in Rwanda be evident give the progress that have already be make . let I set out two or three concrete piece of evidence to help my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) . on Thursday 21 March , the Rwandan Senate pass legislation ratify the treaty . the domestic legislation to implement the new asylum system have be approve by the Cabinet and be now with Parliament for consideration . the complaint process have be set up . this , plus the wide assurance on the training process , which will ensure the quality of decision making and build capability in Rwanda ' s asylum system , all reaffirm the fact that we have confidence in Rwanda ' s commitment to deliver this partnership and in its status as a safe country . as be evident from our numerous debate , Rwanda have a strong track record of welcome asylum seeker and look after refugee , and it have also be internationally recognise as generally safe and stable . a further piece of evidence be that Rwanda ' s overall score in the World Justice Project ' s rule of law index have increase consistently . it be the first in sub - Saharan Africa and 41st globally . in fact , it be high than both Georgia and India , which this Parliament have in the recent past confirm be safe country . those relocate to Rwanda will be give safety and extensive support , as detailed and set out in the treaty . I be grateful to all the official in the Government of Rwanda who have be work so hard on this . lord amendment 6d , which I characterise as a wreck amendment , would simply encourage illegal migrant to continue to frustrate the system through lengthy legal challenge in order to prevent their removal , run contrary to the core purpose of the Bill . the Bill strike the appropriate balance of limit unnecessary challenge that frustrate removal , while maintain the principle of access to the court . take as a whole , the limited availability of domestic remedy maintain the right constitutional balance — the balance that we have all be seek in this Chamber — between Parliament be able to legislate as it deem necessary , and the power of our court to hold the Government to account . turn to the final Lords amendment , amendment 10d , I acknowledge , as I acknowledge during our previous exchange , that this Government recognise the commitment and responsibility that come with combat veteran , whether our own or those who have show courage by serve alongside we . I repeat : we will not let they down . section 4 of the Illegal Migration Act 2023 enable the Secretary of State to specify category of person to whom the duty to remove will not apply . once the United Kingdom ' s special force afghan relocation and assistance policy review , announce on 19 February , have conclude , the Government will consider how to revisit our immigration legislation and how it will apply to those who will be eligible as a result of the review . it be one thing to hear the Minister give the assurance he have give today , but the fact remain that we have be out of Afghanistan for some time now . there be considerable evidence that those who help we , and put themselves in danger as a result , have not be able to get easy access to the United Kingdom and get immigration status . the Government have not deal with the issue in the past , despite the fact that the difficulty that these people be face have be make quite clear , so why should we believe their assurance that they will deal with it in the future ? therefore , this amendment be necessary . the answer be that this Prime Minister have place around his Cabinet table the Minister for Veterans ’ Affairs , my right hon . friend the Member for Plymouth , Moor View ( Johnny Mercer ) — a veteran ' Minister sit at the high level . my right hon . friend the Home Secretary have serve our country , as have many right hon . and hon . member across the House . we will not let veteran down . that be the reassurance that have be give from this Dispatch Box and in the other place by the noble Lord Sharpe . the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) express optimism on Monday . I confess that I too be an optimist . may I take this opportunity , perhaps in the optimistic hope that this might be my last opportunity during the passage of the Bill , to thank all the Bill team in the Home Office for their extraordinary work ? it be a team effort , but may I praise one who have go above and beyond , whose voice , I hope , recover ? she know who I be talk about . I thank the parliamentary Clerks for their advice and assistance , not least in our marathon Reasons Committee session . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for always ensure that I have be in order . to conclude , we have make it abundantly clear that our priority be to stop the boat . we simply can not stand by and allow people smuggler to control who enter our country and to see more life be lose at sea . we have an obligation to the public and to those who be be exploit by criminal gang to stop this vile trade and protect our border . let this Bill pass now will send a clear signal that if people come to the United Kingdom illegally they will not be able to stay . I commend the motion to the House . I thank the noble Lords in the other place for all the hard work they have do in try to amend the Bill , which be quite frankly a sham and a con . I would like to highlight the restraint that they have exercise . despite the deeply damaging nature of this legislation , in term of its impact on our constitutional convention and our adherence as a country to the rule of law , none of the amendment before we today seek to wreck the Bill or the unworkable , unaffordable and unlawful scheme the Bill seek to enact . not one of they would prevent flight to Rwanda from take off or stop the government flog this dead horse of a policy . instead , the amendment seek only to commit the Government to the promise they have already make about who will be send to Rwanda , and to clarify the mechanism that will underpin that process . minister claim that there be tremendous and pressing urgency , but if that be the case why do the Government forgo the opportunity to use Monday 25 and Tuesday 26 March for debate and division on the Bill ? could it be because they need extra time to scramble high and low for an airline that want to be associate with this unworkable , unaffordable and unlawful scheme ? or could it be because the Home Secretary be unable to decide who should be exempt from deportation to Rwanda ? indeed , it have be report that , because of his dithering , the entire hare - brain scheme have be give a " red risk " rating in the Home Office . that bring I to the permanent secretary ' s comment at the Public Accounts Committee on Monday — namely that 40 , 000 asylum seeker be currently stick in the truly Kafkaesque perma - backlog of inadmissible case whose claim for asylum the Government be refuse to process . forty thousand require an awful lot of flight , give that the Government have not manage to get one flight off the ground and give what we know about the Rwandan Government ' s capacity to process just a few hundred case a year . therefore , give that a maximum of around 1 % of the asylum seeker who be in the perma - backlog can be send to Rwanda , what be the Minister ' s plan for the remain 99 % who be stick in this indefinite limbo of his Government ' s own making ? be the plan to keep they in taxpayer - fund hotel , of which hundred be still in operation , accord to what the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border say on Monday , despite the Government ' s boast ? or , perhaps they will have an amnesty , which the hon . member for South Thanet ( Craig Mackinlay ) warn about last year , and which the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) warn about at that very Committee . well , we know what we would do : we would deliver our backlog clearance plan , surge the number of decision - maker to process claim quickly , and set up our new return and enforcement unit with 1 , 000 new staff to remove those who have no right to be here . it be quite frankly shocking that the number of foreign criminal remove have drop by a staggering 27 % under the Conservatives , and also profoundly worry that the number of fail asylum seeker be return have plummet by 44 % in that time , with just 2 % — 2 % ! — of small boat crosser remove since 2018 . what a sorry state of affair . our new return unit , together with our cross - border police unit to go after the criminal smuggler gang operate in the channel upstream — fund , of course , through redirect the money that have be squander on Rwanda — give we a compelling and realistic plan . it be a plan that be base on hard graft , common sense and effective international co - operation , in stark contrast with the headline - chase gimmick , empty gesture and blank cheque that have come to define the way in which successive conservative government have break our asylum system and lose control of our border . the Government ' s refusal to engage constructively with the other place on this Bill be deeply disappointing , give that their lordship have simply be fulfil their constitutional duty to revise and improve the draft legislation that we convey to they . the noble Baroness Butler - Sloss receive a tiny concession for her commendable attempt to stop the Government send victim of modern slavery to Rwanda , but let we be clear : that concession be barely worth the paper that it be write on . it be utterly shameful that minister be still refuse to accept the amendment in the name of the noble Lord Browne . we owe a debt of honour and gratitude to the Afghans who so bravely fight alongside british troop , and the idea that we might send they to Rwanda be simply unconscionable . Lord Browne ' s amendment be not only drive by a moral imperative ; it be underpin by our national interest and by military logic , for the simple and obvious reason that the ability of our armed force to recruit local ally will be severely constrain if this Bill pass unamended . let I turn now to the other amendment before we today . it can not be repeat often enough that adherence to the rule of law must remain at the heart of our constitutional convention , and as a cornerstone of our liberal democratic value . it be therefore profoundly concern that minister continue to refuse to recognise how important it be for Britain to abide by these principle , and to have this commitment in the Bill . I simply want to put it to the hon . Gentleman that , as the rule of law include the basis of sovereignty , it be quite clear — from one great jurist to another right the way down through the generation — that , where an Act of Parliament be clear and unambiguous in its wording , it be the duty of the court , as my right hon . and learn Friend the Minister have just say with regard to Lord Reed ' s judgment , to give effect to those word . that be the rule of law , not this confection that the hon . Gentleman be produce time and again . if I may say so , he have flog this dead horse not just once , but many time , because he keep on say it . he have repeat himself now three time . I have never see a dead horse flog so badly as that by the hon . Gentleman . lecture about flog dead horse in the context of a debate about Rwanda really be quite extraordinary , because if we want a definition of a dead horse , it be this policy . the hon . Gentleman and I have have many exchange on this point and I have enjoy they . as I have repeatedly say to he , yes Parliament be sovereign , but Parliament must act with due care and attention and caution with regard to the opinion that come from our most eminent court , the Supreme Court , and in this case the Supreme Court rule unanimously that Rwanda be not a safe country . it be a travesty that Parliament be seek to undermine the rule of our judiciary in that way and it raise deeply troubling question about this issue of the rule of law . where would the propose return unit send illegal to , and what if the country concern do not want to receive they ? I be pleased the right hon . Gentleman have ask I that question , as we often get this point about return from Conservative Members . what I find fascinating be that , when we look at , for example , India , Pakistan and Bangladesh , which be clearly safe country in principle , we see that 80 % of the applicant from those country whose asylum claim fail be not be remove by this Government . for instance , the Home Office reject asylum application from 1 , 750 Pakistanis in 2023 , yet Home Office datum show that just 620 people be remove to Pakistan in 2023 . a clear proportion of those would have be asylum seeker — some may well have be foreign national offender . the key point be that there be many , many country to which it be more than possible to return people , yet the Government be simply fail to do so . my hon . friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) ask an extraordinary question in Home Office oral on Monday about a foreign national offender in her constituency who have be convict of a sexual offence and have ask to be return to his country of origin , but the Home Office have not facilitate that or allow it to happen . clearly , there be something go seriously wrong with return . as I have mention , we have see the number of return fail asylum seeker plummet by 44 % since 2010 . we should be focus on those country with low grant rate , because that be where we can clear some of this backlog and return people to their country of origin when they have no right to be here . I thank the shadow Minister for give way . I find it interesting that he have suggest that all we need to do be ask India for emergency travel document and it will immediately issue they . have he make any attempt to find out what the issue might be there ? the key point be that , under the last Labour Government , return be work . a part of that , I suspect , be base on proper , adult , grown - up in the room have proper , adult , grow - up diplomatic conversation with the government with whom we mean to engage . what we have see with this Government over the past few year be a consistent commitment to burn diplomatic relationship with a whole range of country , and when we burn those bridge it make it much more difficult to achieve what we need to achieve in our own national interest . the Government have promise a whole range of thing from that Dispatch Box , and the Lords amendment on these rule of law issue be simply seek to put in the Bill what minister have promise . why else be they reject the amendment in the name of my noble friend , Lord Coaker , which simply ask the Government to commit to promise that they have make ? likewise , why not support the Lords amendment in the name of the noble Baroness Chakrabarti , which allow Ministers , official and court to consider whether Rwanda be safe for individual on a case - by - case basis , if the Government support the principle of appeal , as Ministers claim that they do ? give that the noble Lord Coaker have bring this forward in one shape or another several time , and give that it be central to the debate , in the light of what I say in my early intervention , would I be right in think that the Leader of the Opposition support the amendment ? if so , why ? it be for the simple reason that we want to put in the Bill an articulation of what have already be say by Ministers from the Dispatch Box . we feel that it be extremely important to underline this country ' s commitment to the rule of law . the hon . Gentleman mention the Leader of the opposition ; as an eminent lawyer himself , there be few who be more committed to the rule of law than he . if there be a parallel universe in which the Rwandan Government be able to process asylum claim in a safe and competent manner , surely it make sense to verify that point and the measure that be set out in the Rwanda treaty , and to verify that they have be fully implement , and for the Government ' s hand - pick monitoring committee to establish that that be the case . that be not an unreasonable request from the noble Lord Hope , and the Government should therefore support his amendment , precisely as the Chair of the Justice Committee , the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , who be no long in his place , point out . the british people be look on at this Government ' s attempt to continue flog this dead horse of a Bill — that seem to have become the metaphor of the day — with a grow sense of bemusement and anger . blow half a million pound of taxpayer ' money on send 300 people to Rwanda be utterly mind - boggling . it be equally staggering that £ 2 million will be spend per asylum seeker to send they to Rwanda . we could surely spend £ 2 million more effectively on send the Prime Minister and his four predecessor on a one - way trip to outer space with Virgin Galactic . perhaps the right thing to do would be for the Government to drop this entire fail fiasco and instead adopt Labour ' s detailed plan to repurpose the Rwanda money into smash the criminal smuggler gang and end the Tory small boat chaos . we know what the Bill be really about ; the former Immigration Minister , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , admit it in December . it be all about the Prime Minister get " a few symbolic flight " off the ground before the general election . this weekend , a civil servant confirm to Lizzie Dearden in the i newspaper that effort be gear towards a single flight as " proof of concept " , call it an " election vanity scam " . that really tell we everything that we need to know . none of this be about deal with the chaos that the Government have create ; they have focus on get a couple of symbolic flight off the ground . it let the cat well and truly out of the bag . everyone can see the Rwanda scheme for what it really be , everyone can see the legislation for what it really be , and everybody can see this Government for what they be . I think we need a new one , and so too do the british people . bear in mind the short time , I will do my good to speak briefly . we have four amendment from the Lords . I can deal with they in short order . amendment 1d have no merit . I have not vote on that particular issue before , but today I will vote against it , because we can not perfect that mess of a clause — clause 1 . I will not repeat the argument that I have make on that , and I really do not think that the amendment improve the clause with the addition of various statute , as the Minister say . I think that we should reject the amendment . I agree that amendment 6D be a wreck amendment . we know that the delineation of clause 4 specifically with individual case be a proper and right addition to the Bill from the outset , which I think make it compliant with the rule of law . therefore the amendment should be reject . I will not repeat my argument on amendment 10d . I still think that there be a class of people who serve this country , and bravely expose themselves to danger , who have not yet be deal with . many of they be in Pakistan . it would perhaps have be helpful to see an amendment in lieu to deal with that point , as the Minister do with regard to modern - day slavery , for which I thank he . I be pleased to hear the detailed reference that the Minister make to the progress be make by the Government of Rwanda to implement the provision under the treaty . that be clearly the issue at the heart of amendment 3e and clause 2 . he know my concern about deeming provision and the desirability of their meeting the reality of the situation , which be why I welcome his statement , and the statement of the noble Lord , the Advocate - General in the other place , that the Bill will not come into force until the treaty have be implement . I think the Minister concede that the amendment in the name of the noble Lord Hope be not a wreck amendment ; it be design to ensure that there be a mechanism through which this place can deal with the fact that Rwanda be a safe country , and to ensure that if , God forbid , the situation ever deteriorate such that it be no long a safe country , we would not need primary legislation to correct the situation . at the moment we would . the second propose new subsection in amendment 3e would allow this place to be involve in a situation where Rwanda might no long be a safe country , on the advice of the independent monitoring committee , which of course be a creature of the treaty itself , set up under the treaty , as the Minister describe . it be not part of the Hope amendment to set up a new body . that be not the intention . I share my right hon . and learn Friend ' s reservation about the inability of this House to reconsider the matter of the safety of Rwanda under the current legislation , but be the problem with the noble Lord Hope ' s amendment not that the mechanism that he describe give to the monitoring committee the final say on the safety of Rwanda ? it do not give this House the opportunity to say , " we ' ve hear the advice of the monitoring committee , but we none the less believe that Rwanda remain a safe country for the purpose of the legislation . " my right hon . and learn Friend and I might think that that be a wholly unlikely scenario , but as a matter of parliamentary sovereignty , do he agree that it must remain possible ? up to a point , Lord Copper . I think the second propose new subsection in the amendment — propose new subsection ( 8 ) of clause 1 — will provide leeway for the Government to disagree with the advisory committee , which might advise that Rwanda be no long a safe country when in the opinion of the Secretary of State it be . then it would be a matter for Parliament to determine , and the trigger would not come into place . on the first propose new subsection in the amendment — propose new subsection ( 7 ) of clause 1 — my right hon . and learn Friend be on strong ground , in the sense that it relate to a statement from the independent monitoring committee . however , I have no problem with an independent monitoring committee that have be set up by a treaty that have be agree to by this government and by the Government of Rwanda , and which have come into force in our law through the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 provision . slightly inelegant though it be , it be difficult to see another way to do this that could be conclusive , and which could give certainty to all those involve in the operation of the scheme . the Minister know that I seek to remove and reduce the possibility of legal challenge . I do not want to see the legislation become the subject of angst , sturm und drang in either the High Court , the Court of Appeal or , God forbid , the Supreme Court . we see the effect of what happen when the situation as of 2022 be determine on the evidence by the Supreme Court . the Minister know my view about that . whatever concern I have about the Supreme Court in effect conduct a test on evidence , which frankly be not what it should be do — the Supreme Court should deal with and interpret the law of this country — that be the reality in which we operate . I want to ensure that the Bill do not lead to the same problem . that be why the noble Lord Hope ' s amendment have strong merit . it clear up any doubt that there be not a mechanism either for the Executive or this place to apply the provision of the Bill , or to disapply they when the fact change . let we ensure that the reality keep pace with the law , and that deeming provision , however attractive they might be , be not use as a device to cut corner and to run ahead of ourselves in a way that will only cause problem , not just for the judicial system but for the operation of the policy itself , which the Minister know I have consistently support , and will continue to support , as an innovative and proper response to the unprecedented challenge of mass migration that the west be face now . this be serious stuff . I want the Government to get it right . I call the SNP spokesman . I will start in order with Lords amendment 1d in the name of Lord Coaker . the Minister ask why the Government ought to have due regard for those particular piece of legislation — why would we want to have due regard for international law and various act , include the Children Act 1989 , the Human Rights Act 1998 , and the Modern Slavery Act 2015 ? well , the reason be find on the face of the Bill , which state , in the name of the Home Secretary : " I be unable to make a statement that , in my view , the provision of the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill be compatible with the Convention right , but the Government nevertheless wish the House to proceed with the Bill . " the Government be set out to undermine our international obligation , so it be quite right for the Lords to insist that we abide by they . that be the very least the Government should be do . there be implication for child , for people who have be victim of slavery and trafficking , and for people whose human right will be abuse . the Government should be pay far more attention to that . on Lords amendment 3e in the name of Lord Hope , there be significance in ensure that the monitoring committee can do its job properly . it be not clear in what circumstance Rwanda can be declare not safe . the monitoring committee be suppose to produce an annual report that then go up the chain to the Joint Committee , but there be no mechanism for the committee to blow the whistle should something happen . there be no mechanism for it to say , " suddenly , something have happen and Rwanda be no long safe . " what happen in that circumstance to those recommendation ? how be they act on , and what then happen to the people the UK want to send to Rwanda ? there no such mechanism in this legislation — or , as far as I can see , in the treaty , which involve a three - month delay , and the agreement of both party , before anything can be annul . what happen should something untoward occur in Rwanda ? I refer to the action of the M23 rebel in my remark early this week , but the Minister do not respond to it in his sum up . what happen if something go awry ? we do not know ; we be beholden to the Government ' s assertion that Rwanda be safe in perpetuity . there be no mechanism to remove the perpetuity of Rwanda ' s designation as " safe . " I highlight the experience of the irish author and journalist Sally Hayden , who write " my Fourth Time , we drown : seek Refuge on the World ' s Deadliest Migration Route " . she have raise concern about the mechanism of scrutiny in Rwanda itself , and about the treatment of refugee in Rwanda . she have visit the country on several occasion , but be deny entry last month as she go to cover the 30th anniversary of the rwandan genocide . she have try to resolve that with the rwandan authority , but believe that she be refuse entry precisely because she have criticise they and their treatment of refugee . should that not alarm we all when it come to the scrutiny of the Bill both here and in Rwanda ? she say : " proper scrutiny of the consequence of this policy be not possible because it ' s not a country with freedom of medium and freedom of speech " . we should be deeply concerned about that . without that independence and scrutiny , we can not be certain that what be happen in Rwanda be what the UK Government intend or what the Rwandan Government be tell we . press freedom be crucial for that level of scrutiny , beyond the supposedly independent monitoring committee . I support amendment 3e . I also support amendment 6d , in the name of Baroness Chakrabarti , because it stand up for the right of our own authority to make proper decision . it empower our decision maker and our court , as they should be empower , to look at the evidence before they and make proper decision . the Government be ask the judiciary , immigration officer , tribunal and everybody in the system to engage in a legal fantasy — that they should ignore all the evidence before they and believe the Government when they say that Rwanda be safe in perpetuity . with reference to propose new subsection 1 ( c ) , which deal with refoulement , I remind the House that Rwanda engage in the refoulement of several person during the negotiation of the treaty , never mind at any time . we should be worried about that . Lords amendment 10d propose the new clause , " exemption for agent , ally and employee of the UK Overseas " . we have an urgent question early today about the people from Afghanistan who be be yeete out of Pakistan . the pakistani Government be apparently plead by use Rwanda as some kind of justification for that behaviour . that really indicate the ripple effect of what the Government be do : other country be pray in aid this legislation when they look to do thing that we also have concern about . in that UQ , I raise the point that we have be wait three year for the UK Government to get their act together on the afghan relocation and assistance policy and the afghan citizen resettlement scheme . People should not still be wait in uncertainty and fear , with the prospect of be execute by the Taliban should they be remove back to Afghanistan . it be absolutely unacceptable and unjustifiable that the Government have do so little in three year to protect Afghans who serve alongside our force in Afghanistan . the very least the Government could do be approve the propose new clause in Lords amendment 10d , to acknowledge that the people who serve with we deserve protection — that the people who be come on small boat because the Government scheme have fail to protect they should be exempt from be send to Rwanda . the Government be refuse to accept that , and I think that be absolutely despicable . with the good will in the world , those amendment be not enough . even if we pass they , the Rwanda Bill be a turd that can not be polish — it be absolutely disgusting and objectionable in every sense . will the Labour party repeal it ? the Bill will pass , but will Labour Members repeal it as one of their first action in government , or keep it in statute ? I would like to have an answer on the record . I reiterate my deep concern that this be state - sponsor people traffic . whichever way we cut it , it mean move people to another country against their will and without their consent . that be people traffic . the Government can not find a commercial airline to take people , but even more concern be that they be engage a Royal Air Force contractor , AirTanker , to remove people to Rwanda against their will . the position of the Scottish National party remain that we oppose the Bill in every single sense . I will vote against it at every give opportunity — even in the Reasons Room behind your Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker — because it be despicable and do not stand in Scotland ' s name . rise — order . we have very little time leave so I must put on a formal time limit of two minute . I will be brief and focus entirely on Lord Coaker ' s amendment 1d , which I have already mention in intervention . the problem with the wording that he put forward in debate be one of disingenuously mix apple and pear . I want to know whether the Leader of the opposition be also behind the amendment , because it be much more substantial than its predecessor . it be actually a change in labour policy as well . the noble Lord Irvine , Tony Blair as Prime Minister and Jack Straw all agree that the sovereignty of Parliament , where word be clear and unambiguous , prevail . the bottom line be that that be exactly what we be deal with here . I applaud the idea of maintain international law — I have never take a different view — but in his speech Lord Coaker compare what be go on in the middle east to the illegal war in Ukraine and the Houthis in the Red sea . he fail to appreciate that those situation be separate to this issue , and I be raise this as a matter of principle and constitutional propriety . those be exclusively matter of prerogative , whereas in this instance we be deal with an issue of sovereignty and the clear and unambiguous word that appear in statute , as Lord Hoffmann make clear when he distinguish between treaty and statute in relation to the case of Regina v . lyon , which I have refer to previously . the position be basically and simply this : I stand by what I have say on this subject in the past . I sincerely trust that the Court will agree that these word be clear and unambiguous . the Government ' s motion to disagree with Lords amendment 1d be a motion to disagree with the Government ' s obligation in relation to the Bill to have due regard for international law and the Children Act 1989 , the Human Rights Act 1998 and the Modern Slavery Act 2015 . if the Government be confident that the Rwanda scheme will be fully compliant with international law and the aforementioned domestic law , I do not understand why they be reject this amendment again . the motion to disagree with Lords amendment 3e would scrap the requirement insert by the Lords that Rwanda be treat as a safe country only if and when protection contain in the treaty be judge by the independent monitoring committee to have be implement and to remain implemented . surely Lords amendment 3e be an entirely proper and legal amendment if the Government deem that the measure in their own treaty be necessary ? give that Members have no opportunity to debate that treaty prior to ratification , the amendment would at least provide some reassurance that the protection it contain will be put into practice . the motion to disagree with Lords amendment 6d be a motion to deny individual ground for legal challenge that the Republic of Rwanda be a safe country for the person in question or for a group of person , or that there be a real risk that Rwanda will remove or send those person to another state . the Home Affairs Committee have always be clear that there have to be the opportunity for appropriate legal challenge as a necessary part of our fair asylum system . I listen very carefully to the Minister ' s assurance about the specify category that could be use in the future , but amendment 10d set out very clearly why such provision should be include on the face of the Bill and our obligation to those who have help we and our armed force overseas . that amendment would be the right thing to add to the Bill . as I be watch Aston Villa smash Arsenal on Sunday , my thought turn to today ' s debate because , as Aston Villa fan will know , the Emirates stadium be of course sponsor by the Visit Rwanda scheme , and Arsenal play with those word emblazon on their shirt . I strongly support the Government ' s position as set out by the reason articulate by my right hon . and learn Friend the excellent Minister for counter Illegal Migration . More than that , though , behind all these amendment , this ping - pong , the Reasons Room , and this process , which be quite baffle to my constituent , lie a simple question : be this Parliament sovereign or not ? I believe I be send to this Parliament to make law in the interest of my constituent in Redditch . they be a generous people — we have accept refugee from around the world and give they a warm Redditch welcome — but in the interest of stability and security , and protect those british value and the culture that we all care about , they also ask that we enact measure to enable our country to control our border . this whole debate be really sum up by the question of whether or not we in the west be able to control our border , because we all know that this be go to get much bad . some 100 million people be on the move . the Opposition spokesman , the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , talk about have more grow - up in the room and talk more nicely . perhaps the people smuggler will listen to that and stop put people in small boat , but somehow I doubt it — it be complete and utter nonsense . we be send to this place to make hard choice , not emote and do thing that make we feel good in the moment . we have to stand on one side , with the sovereignty of this Parliament and the people of Redditch , and this Bill be the way to do so . let we get Rwanda do . we will stop these boat and make our country safe . we be at that stage in the legislative process where government obstinacy sometimes overcome rationality . there be no way that these can be describe as wreck amendment — I wish they be , but they be not . Lords amendment 3e simply use the Government ' s own mechanism to ensure , as Conservative Members have say , that Parliament have the opportunity to change its judgment when the fact change . anyone who have any experience of the history of this region of Africa realise that there be build - in instability , and therefore we may well need to come back to this matter , although I hope we do not . my Northern Ireland colleague the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) ask about Lords amendment 10d , and the ministerial response be that we should not worry because the fact that a number of veteran sit in Cabinet mean that the system will work for those who serve in Afghanistan . I be sorry , but so far , the veteran sit around the Cabinet table have not ensure that . many of we have deal with individual case , and all Lords amendment 10d would do be ensure that we live up to our commitment that those who serve alongside we , put their life and those of their family at risk , will be secure . the exist scheme have not work in that way , but Lords amendment 10d would ensure that it do in the future . my final point be that I come to this place on the basis that Parliament be all about protect its citizen and ensure that they have safety but also access to law . Baroness Chakrabarti ' s amendment 6d simply ensure that Parliament fulfil that role — it certainly be not a wreck amendment . I call the Minister . I be very grateful to you , Madam Deputy Speaker . with the leave of the House , I would like to make a few remark ; I fear that I do not have time to respond to each and every point that have be make , but I thank right hon . and hon . member right across the House for the contribution they have make . I want to pick up on one contribution , which be the intervention that my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) make on the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) . the shadow Minister can not actually say what Labour would do : he say that he have a plan , but all Labour can say it would do be exactly what the Government be already do . it have say that it would scrap the Rwanda scheme even when it be up and run , but it have not find a deterrent . bad than that , as my hon . friend the Members for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) and for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) have also say previously , it be incumbent on anyone who disagree with this policy to come up with their own solution to the problem of how we deal with people who enter the country with no legitimate , credible case for claim asylum and who can not be return to their home country . as ever , answer come there none from the Labour party . let this Bill now pass will enable we to send a clear signal : " if you enter this country illegally , you will not be able to stay . you will be detain and swiftly return to your home country or to a safe third country , namely Rwanda . " I urge this House to once again send a strong message back to the other place that these amendment be not necessary . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1d . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Amanda Solloway Mike Wood Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Chris Evans Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 306 , Noes 240 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 1d disagree to . More than one hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the Lords message , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , 18 March ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83 g ) . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 3e . — ( Michael Tomlinson . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy David Davis Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Charles Walker Robin Walker Ben Wallace Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Amanda Solloway Mike Wood Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Chris Evans Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Mary Glindon Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 306 , Noes 240 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 3e disagree to . clause 4 - decision in individual claim Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 6d . — ( Michael Tomlinson . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy David Davis Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Mike Wood Amanda Solloway Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Chris Evans Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 310 , Noes 240 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 6d disagree to . after clause 5 - exemption for agent , ally and employee of the UK Overseas Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 10d . — ( Michael Tomlinson . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy David Davis Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Mike Wood Amanda Solloway Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Robert Buckland Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Chris Evans Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Paul Girvan Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Rachael Maskell John McNally Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Mary Glindon the House divide : Ayes 302 , Noes 244 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 10d disagree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree to their Amendments 1d , 3e , 6d , and 10d ; that Michael Tomlinson , Scott Mann , Dr Kieran Mullan , James Sunderland , Stephen Kinnock , Colleen Fletcher and Alison Thewliss be member of the Committee ; that Michael Tomlinson be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Mark Jenkinson . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . Finance ( no . 2 ) Bill Second read the reasoned amendment in the name of Drew Hendry have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . last month , my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer set out a Budget to deliver on the priority of the Prime Minister and his Government , in the context of an improve economic picture . inflation have more than halve , down from its peak of 11 . 1 % to 3 . 2 % . real wage have increase for the ninth month in a row and be now grow at an average annual real rate of 1 . 9 % . the Finance ( no . 2 ) Bill build on these improvement by seek to reward work , boost the housing market , improve the tax system and strengthen the economy . this follow on from our national insurance cut that , when combine with the autumn reduction , mean 27 million employee will get an average tax cut of £ 900 a year and 2 million self - employ people will get a tax cut average £ 700 a year , all make possible because we have a plan for growth and for well and more efficient public service . the Bill cover 24 different measure in total and I will outline its most substantive power . will the Minister consider a further measure to right a historic injustice ? in Committee , will he entertain an amendment to allow those catch up in the loan charge access to a tribunal ? I thank my right hon . friend for his comment . we have have a discussion about the loan charge previously . I do not believe an amendment would be in order on this Bill , but I say to my right hon . friend and other that I be always open to hear concern about the loan charge . I have do previously and will happily continue to hear information , evidence and concern from colleague . I thank the Minister for come to the House to present the Bill . over the last six month , particularly the last few week , farmer have be under exceptional weather pressure , with the implication that they will be unable to cultivate or plough their land or sow their crop . the Minister refer to inflation come down . by the way , I be glad that it be drop ; we all should be , and if we be not there be something wrong with we . at the same time , inflation can not come down if the cost of foodstuff start to rise . have the Minister have the opportunity to consider that issue ? how can we help farmer to keep food price down at this difficult time , and thereby ensure inflation continue to drop ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his positive welcome of today ' s news about inflation . he be right that it be welcome but we always need to keep an eye on it . I join he in thank our farmer , who have play a pivotal role in help food price to come down . the supermarket have a role in that area as well . he raise some point that be slightly outside the remit of the Bill , but I assure he I will continue to have conversation with ministerial colleague and other , and I be sure he will as well . we always listen to the important farming community in this country , who do so much to create employment and provide we with food . the Bill cover 24 different measure . I will not go through every single one of they , but want to focus on a few key area . first , I turn to how the Bill reward work . we all recognise the simple truth that work should pay . we understand how hard many people up and down the country work . this Government want to ensure they be recognise for that because that approach not only benefit individual and family , but overall growth and the economy . as I mention , that be why we have already take two Bills to cut national insurance through Parliament , but this Bill go far . a key measure in the Bill be to increase the high - income child benefit charge threshold from £ 50 , 000 to £ 60 , 000 . in addition , the rate of the charge will be halve , so that individual continue to receive child benefit until one household member earn £ 80 , 000 , take 170 , 000 family out of pay this tax charge . these change be a well - earn reward for work family up and down the country and put pound back into parent ' pocket . while the change in the child benefit allowance be important , especially help parent who want to get into work and have their child look after , do the Minister accept that one of the big impact of the Budget on people who be work be the way in which they be be drag into high tax rate because threshold have not be raise ? that be have a huge disincentive effect on work family . the right hon . Gentleman will be aware that , back in 2010 , the tax - free allowance be , I think , £ 6 , 475 . action take by this government since then have increase the tax - free allowance to more than £ 12 , 500 , a significant real - term increase , which mean that take - home pay be high than it otherwise would have be . when take in combination with other measure , it be a really important move . furthermore , I be sure the right hon . Gentleman would not want to detract from the significant change in national insurance , which have put money back into people ' s pocket . we have eliminate by a third a whole category of taxation — national insurance — and that will help work people in this country as well . just to reinforce this point about the increase in threshold , the Minister say that it have be a significant real - term increase , but it be actually a 21 % increase , which be very significant indeed . my question be on the part of the hicbc that be announce in the Budget but that he do not quite mention , which be the plan from 2025 - 26 to base the benefit on the household budget rather than the individual budget . can he just reassure the House that his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs will be up to speed to be able to implement that part of what the Chancellor have outline ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , but he have jump ahead to a later part of my speech . I will get on to that point in a moment , because the movement to a household budget be an important part of the announcement . I should just reiterate the first point on the change that we have make . overall , we estimate that 485 , 000 family will gain an average of £ 1 , 260 in child benefit in 2024 - 25 from these change to HICBC . and , of course , what be good for family be also good for the economy at large , as my hon . Friend point out . the Office for Budget Responsibility estimate that , through these child benefit change , the economy will gain additional hour work equivalent to around 10 , 000 full - time equivalent by 2028 - 29 . go forward , we want to ensure that the child benefit system fairly reward family in all their diversity , include those who , for example , have only one work parent . the Government will end the unfairness , for example , of single earner family in the child benefit system by administer the HICBC on a household rather than an individual basis by April 2026 . we shall be consult on this in due course , as my hon . Friend quite rightly highlight . this be something , we know , that many people have be call for . can the Minister give we an indication of what level of household income the Treasury have in mind for that consultation ? I presume that it will be much high than £ 80 , 000 ; otherwise , it would be a more punitive situation . will it be £ 100 , 00 or £ 120 , 000 ? what will it be ? I appreciate my hon . friend ' s inquisitiveness , but this be the point of the consultation . we will be have a consultation and I be sure that his view and opinion and those of other will be take into account . I shall now turn to how the Bill will drive investment in our economy . we all recognise that investment in the economy be crucial for economic growth . it support everyone across the country and ensure our competitiveness in international market . that be why , through this Bill , the Government be take decision for the long term to support that investment . for example , our creative industry contribute £ 126 billion in gross value add in 2022 and support more than 2 million job . by announce more than £ 1billion of new relief for the UK ' s world - lead creative industry at the spring Budget , we have signal our commitment to ensure the sector ' s continued growth . for example , we will make current tax relief for theatre , orchestra , museum and gallery permanent , at a rate of 45 % for tour theatre and tour production by museum and gallery ; 40 % for non - touring production ; and 45 % for orchestra . that will ensure that our creative industry have the support they need after the unprecedented economic shock of the pandemic . we will also far support the UK ' s independent film sector through a new UK independent film tax credit at a rate of 53 % for film with a budget of up to £ 15 million , which be worth about £ 80 million a year . this will support the production of UK independent film and , of course , the incubation of UK talent , which be admire around the world . this Government be commit to support UK business and these measure deliver on that . the amendment in my name seek to address the failure of the Bill to bring in tax measure to ensure the continuation of oil and gas activity in Scotland , include at Grangemouth oil refinery . almost 90 % of levy revenue come from Scotland , but there be precious little by way of investment in that part of the economy . a good example of that be the UK Government ' s denial of £ 80 million to save Grangemouth , while at the same time sign a loan guarantee of £ 600 million for INEOS , for activity in Antwerp and Belgium . accord to the response to a write question from my hon . friend the Member for East Lothian ( Kenny MacAskill ) , the UK Government have not even assess the potential supply of that activity . order . come on — ask a question . can the Minister not see the perversity of spend scottish revenue abroad while job in Scotland be wilfully put at risk by this Government ? I could not disagree more with the hon . member ' s premise . if anybody have show support for the sector , this Government have . we have show huge support for the sector , in an appropriate and proportionate way , while also encourage the industry to decarbonise . as I say , we be take fiscally responsible decision to extend the energy profit levy for one year . we be also provide confidence and certainty to business in the sector by legislate for an energy profit levy price floor . that be what be in the Bill . that will effectively abolish the energy profit levy if the six - month average for both oil and gas be at or below a set threshold . do so be the sector ' s main ask in the 2024 spring Budget , and it could help to unlock around £ 9 billion in uncommitted investment spend , accord to Offshore Energies UK , which welcome the decision . I be sorry that he feel unable to welcome it as well . those measure will ensure that investment in our economy continue to grow . I will now outline some measure in the Bill ' s property package . the Bill will cut the high rate of capital gain tax on residential property from 28 % to 24 % , encourage landlord and second home owner to sell their property , which could increase revenue because there would be more transaction . the capital gain tax cut be very welcome , but will the Minister outline whether it will come into play retrospectively ? hypothetically , if a Labour Front Bencher happen to owe some capital gain tax , would they benefit from a conservative tax cut ? I think I know where my hon . friend be head . of course I can not comment on individual tax situation . his point , though , be an important one : everybody should always pay the taxis that they owe . I think that principle be share across the House . the measure will be implement from 6 April 2024 , so some people may be disappoint that there be no retrospectivity , but as I say , it will make more home available to purchase for a variety of buyer , include first - time buyer . we also need to ensure that the property system be fair and work as intend . the Government be clear that where policy be not meet their policy objective , we will take action . that be why we be abolish multiple dwelling relief , a bulk purchase relief in the stamp duty and land tax regime , from 1 June 2024 . that follow an external evaluation that find no strong evidence that the relief be meet its original objective of support investment in the private rented sector , and because HMRC have record high and clear instance of its abuse . we be also amend rule to ensure that victim of domestic abuse be not unfairly penalise if they wish to buy their first home anonymously , and that those in difficult circumstance do not face additional barrier to purchase home . we will ensure that register provider of social housing in England and Northern Ireland be not liable for stamp duty land tax when purchase property with a public subsidy , and exempt public body from the 15 % anti - avoidance rate . finally , I turn to measure that will simplify and modernise our tax system , make it easy to engage with the tax system and closing loophole that could be use for avoidance . the negative impact of inefficient , complex taxis on both business and the wide economy can not be overstate . that be why the Government be take action to ensure that the system work for everyone . as a starting point , we be amend two primary vat interest provision in legislation to ensure that they apply to all case intend by the policy . that will mean that the interest payment that HMRC recover be correct , and it will save time and resource for HMRC and business . the Government recognise that it be everyone ' s responsibility to pay their fair share of tax to support our vital public service , so we be close another anti - avoidance loophole — one that enable individual to avoid tax by move asset abroad via a company . that be one of 200 measure that we have undertake since 2010 to close loophole and reduce the tax gap , which now sit at just 4 . 8 % — down from 7 . 5 % under Labour . yes , that be an inconvenient truth for the Opposition , who recently claim to be so enthusiastic about tackle tax avoidance yet do not take the action that we have take when they be in power . importantly , Labour fail to support the last Finance Bill , which include further measure to tackle tax avoidance . however , Labour be in good — or , rather , bad — company , because the Lib Dems and the SNP do not support it either . it be not the first time that we have see such — how should I put it ? — distance between what the opposition say and what they do . recently , the Labour party even say that it would support our national insurance tax cut , but when it come to the vote , I do not see a single Labour MP in the Aye Lobby with the Conservatives . nor be there any Lib Dems , while SNP Members be in the No Lobby actively vote against tax cut for their constituent . the Government be get on with deliver on our plan to cut taxis , grow the economy and boost investment , but the Labour party would put all that at risk and send we back to square one . instead of take the responsible decision to back business , the Labour party want to saddle they with new regulation . labour ' s so - call new deal for worker be in fact a bad deal for job , worker and business . the 70 new regulation from the deputy leader of the Labour party and the union would ban flexible working , disincentivise small business from make new hire and unleash wave of low - threshold , zero - warning strike . the Minister be quite right to point out the danger of Labour be in charge of finance and the impact that that be likely to have on tax , but do he have the humility to accept that tax be high under this government than it have be for decade ? I certainly have the humility to accept and recognise that . taxis be high out of the obvious and widely accept necessity of pay for massive amount of intervention because of the pandemic and in response to support family and business through the cost of living challenge . we make no apology for intervene to support life and livelihood to the extent that it be necessary . it be absolutely vital that we intervene because not do so would have be a disaster for the UK economy . however , the general level of taxation , as the right hon . Gentleman be probably aware , be much low in the UK than in many other country that also have to significantly increase taxis and Government intervention out of necessity in response to the pandemic . we have much low level of taxation than Germany , France , Italy and many other country . as I say , we have high level of taxation out of necessity , but we be now in a position to start reduce those level of taxation out of policy intent and choice , and that be exactly what we be do . to conclude , this Finance Bill absolutely reward hard work , support our vital industry , boost the housing market and continue to create a fair , simple and more modern tax system . it deliver on the Government ' s commitment to prioritise economic growth and will ensure a bright future for our country . for those reason , I commend it to the House . I be grateful for the chance to respond on behalf of the Opposition in this second Reading debate . the Finance Bill follow last month ' s Budget , in which the record of the Conservatives ' time in office be lay bare . after 14 year , the Conservatives have show what they can deliver for the british people : high taxis , fall living standard and low economic growth . the truth be that after 14 year , they be out of time , out of idea and out of touch with reality . they be out of time because whatever they say or try to do now , it be too late to repair the damage that they have do to the economy and to people ' s standard of living . the Conservatives may now have implement a reduction in national insurance — a cut that we support — but that come amid a tax burden that be set to rise to its high level in 70 year , and to rise in each and every year of the forecast period . the Government simply can not escape the reality that under their plan , for every £ 5 they be give back to family , they will be take £ 10 in high taxis . give with one hand and take twice as much with the other — that be the reality of life under the Conservatives . the Government be not just out of time , but out of idea . in the Budget from which this Finance Bill come , the Conservatives perform what may be the big u - turn of this Parliament yet , and there be some tough competition on that . after year and year of the Conservatives oppose tooth and nail our plan to scrap non - dom status , the Chancellor stand in this Chamber last month and adopt our approach as his own . I recall the Financial Secretary ' s immediate predecessor , the right hon . member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , be a particularly passionate defender of non - dom status . I remember she declare less than a year ago , during the Committee stage of a previous Finance Bill , that " we have come to the conclusion that non - domicile status be right " . – – [ Official Report , Finance ( no . 2 ) Public Bill Committee , 16 May 2023 ; c . 44 . ] how time change ! despite the Government ' s apparent u - turn , we have learn since the Budget through our careful analysis of the Government ' s plan that loophole remain in their approach to abolish non - dom tax status . alongside an unnecessary discount in year 1 , there be a loophole that appear to have be intentionally design to allow non - dom to stash money away in offshore trust , so that they can avoid be subject to inheritance tax , as any other member of the public be . those loophole must be close , because if a person make their home and do their business in Britain , they should pay their taxis here , too . People will look at those loophole and rightly conclude that despite the Budget ' s u - turn , this Prime Minister just can not bring himself to sort out the non - dom problem once and for all . if I may say so , the hon . Gentleman be clutch at straw . there may be a few hundred million pound here or there in what the Government propose do to tighten up suppose loophole , but as he be aware , the Labour party want £ 28 billion spend on its green investment . which taxis will he raise to pay for that ? I fear that the hon . Gentleman be slightly out of date . go into the general election , we have set out very clearly our plan to invest in the transition that we need in our energy supply and our economy , and how we would pay for that — through a strengthened windfall tax , alongside prudent investment . he may scoff at what we say about the non - dom tax loophole , but we be talk about £ 1 billion in the first year and £ 2 . 6 billion over the course of the next Parliament . that money should go to our public service , rather than intentional loophole allow some people to get away with pay hundred of million of pound less in tax . the Conservatives be not just out of idea , but out of touch with reality . they make that very clear in last month ' s Budget , from which this Finance Bill arise . at the end of his Budget speech , the Chancellor make an astonishing £ 46 billion unfunded commitment — leave a gape hole in the public finance — when he pledge to abolish national insurance altogether . since then , Government Ministers have have countless opportunity to row back from or u - turn on that commitment , but they have be determine not to . early today , the Prime Minister have three chance to rule out cut to the NHS , cut to the state pension or tax rise to pay for his £ 46 billion unfunded tax cut . each time , he refuse to do so . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will in a second . it be quite astonishing that the Conservatives be content to go into the general election with a £ 46 billion black hole in their plan , and that they refuse to say whether that £ 46 billion commitment will be fund by tax rise elsewhere or cut to spending . I give way to the hon . Gentleman , so that he can confirm exactly how the Government will pay for that £ 46 billion black hole . I very rarely intervene from the Dispatch Box , but I can not help myself this time . the hon . Gentleman and I have have multiple conversation about this . he can not differentiate between an aspiration and a policy commitment . his £ 28 billion be a policy commitment ; what we have lay out be an aspiration . they be two different thing . as for the hon . Gentleman ' s scaremongere about the possible hit to pension or the NHS , he know full well that those suggestion be absolutely not true , because national insurance do not wholly pay for health , benefit , or indeed pension . he be either scaremongere or exhibit complete and utter financial illiteracy . total spending on the NHS be over £ 160 billion , and welfare spending be over £ 260 billion , massively dwarf the total amount raise by national insurance . he either do not understand that , or be irresponsibly scaremongere , because he have know for a long time that national insurance and other payment be top up by general taxation . he should know well . I thank the hon . gentleman for his mini - speech . I feel I may have touch a nerve . he talk about people be scared ; yes , I think people be scared when they hear the Government make a £ 46 billion unfunded spending commitment and not say how they will pay for it . when the previous Prime Minister make an unfunded tax cut commitment of a similar order of magnitude , we know what havoc that cause in the economy , and people be still pay the price in high mortgage payment and rent payment . I will just say to the hon . Gentleman that I give he a chance to rule out cut to the NHS or the state pension , or tax rise elsewhere , to pay for this black hole . I be not quite sure if he do that — maybe he have not get the line from his boss in no . 10 Downing Street — but the truth be that until the Government rule those thing out , people will rightly worry about the impact his unfunded commitment will have on the economy . the pledge the hon . Gentleman be speak about sound like exactly the sort of pledge that the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) would approve of , because it come to almost exactly the same amount as her Government ' s unfunded tax cut . of course , the previous Prime Minster have be tour the tv studio and talk to newspaper journalist in recent day , say , among other thing , that people who claim that she crash the economy be " either very stupid or very malevolent " . I wonder if the Minister would like to intervene to say whether he share that view . no ? he be not leap to his foot now . I would have think he would ; I would have think that Treasury Ministers would want to put as much distance as possible between themselves and the previous Prime Minister . instead , with their £ 46 billion unfunded commitment , they seem determined to be a tribute act . frankly , whatever the previous Prime Minister say , people across Britain know what impact her time in office be have on all of we , as we face high mortgage and high rent as a direct consequence of her economic recklessness . that be the context in which we be debate this Finance Bill . the context be one of a Government who be out of time , out of idea and out of touch with reality , and of a country that be feel the impact of 14 year of conservative economic failure . even a simple clause such as clause 2 , which set the main rate of income tax , highlight the impact on ordinary people of decision take by this Government . although the basic and high rate of income tax be unchanged by this Bill at 20 % and 40 % , the tax burden on work people be rise as a result of the income tax personal allowance and the high rate threshold be freeze from 2021 - 22 to 2027 - 28 . those tax threshold would ordinarily have rise this April , but instead they be in the middle of a six - year freeze . accord to the Office for Budget Responsibility , which I assume the Minister have respect for , these freeze will create 3 . 7 million extra taxpayer by 2028 - 29 and mean that 2 . 7 million more people will be pay the high rate . the truth be that , even take into account any reduction to national insurance rate , the freeze in threshold and the rise in council tax mean that by the end of the forecast period , the average family will still be £ 870 bad off . as the Resolution Foundation note at the time of Budget , despite the reduction in national insurance , there will still be a net rise of £ 20 billion a year by 2028 - 29 in personal taxis . it point out that those over the state pension age , who do not benefit from national insurance cut , will be particularly badly hit , and will face an average tax rise of £ 960 a year . the reality have be sum up by Paul Johnson , the director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies , who say follow the Budget : " this remain a parliament of record tax rise . " that be the record of the Conservatives in government . there be a certain Leader of the Opposition who , when stand for their post , say that as part of their no . 1 pledge , which be for economic justice , they would increase income tax for the top 5 % of earner and reverse corporation tax cut . if the hon . Gentleman ' s party be vote into government , would it stand by that pledge ? that too would increase the tax burden significantly . I be sorry , but I do not quite follow the hon . Gentleman ' s question . I can , however , respond to the general point that I think he be make . we have be very clear that this be a Parliament of record tax rise . the tax burden be set to be the high in 70 year , and we think that the tax burden on work people should be low . however , we would only ever support tax rise if they be responsible , and do on a basis of economic security and stability . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make some progress , because I have make that point quite clearly . the tax burden have be push to a record high , and we have also see a record number of change and u - turn on tax rate and relief under this Government . that apply not just to personal taxation , but to tax rate and relief relate to business . let we consider the Chancellor ' s approach to the rate of corporation tax , which the Bill set at 25 % in clause 12 . in July 2022 , during his leadership bid , the current Chancellor pledge to cut the headline rate of corporation tax from 19 % to 15 % , yet when he become Chancellor just three month later , one of his first act be to u - turn on what he inherit and to commit to raise that tax from 19 % to 25 % . he have be typical of the Conservatives in lack any certainty , predictability or consistency , and we know how damaging that be to business that be try to make investment decision . as the shadow Chancellor set out , if we win the next general election , we will bring back certainty by cap the headline rate of corporation tax at its current rate of 25 % for the whole of the next Parliament . we would take action if tax change in other advanced economy threaten to undermine UK competitiveness . we believe that the current rate of 25 % — the low in the G7 — strike the right balance between what our public finance need and keep our corporation tax competitive in the global economy . we also recognise the importance of stability and predictability in the relief available to business . we have see a great deal of chop and change in capital allowance in recent year — indeed , this be a rare example of a Finance Bill from this government that do not change the annual investment allowance or expense regime . we have make it clear that if we win the next general election , we will publish a road map for business taxation in our first six month in office , to give business the stability , predictability , and long - term plan that be so important to those make investment decision . we have be push for a proper windfall tax on the profit of oil and gas company operate in the North sea . the Government , despite initial opposition , u - turn on that and adopt some of our proposal with the introduction of the energy profit levy . ahead of the general election , we have set out our plan to make the windfall tax strong , and to raise more revenue to support our country ' s energy transition , but it be also right that we give as much certainty as possible to those company affect . do my hon . friend agree that we need a domestic oil and gas sector and offshore energy sector to deliver for the economy , to deliver energy security , and to bring in the investment need for transition ? after all , the North sea have power our economy and our country for decade , and it can do so for decade to come . my hon . friend be right to say that it be important that we offer as much certainty as possible to those company affect . we recognise that by its very nature , the windfall tax be expect to be a one - off levy in response to extraordinary profit , and will ultimately come to an end . we have set out that if we win the next general election , the energy profit levy will end no later than the end of the next Parliament . we also fully support the energy security investment mechanism in clause 19 , and the signal that it give , which help with investor confidence in the UK ' s offshore energy sector . we will not oppose the Bill on Second Reading , and we look forward to detailed consideration of its clause in Committee . however , the wide context in which the Bill have be publish lay bare the record of the Conservatives in government . that record be one of fall living standard for people across Britian , and the high tax burden in 70 year . it be one of economic stagnation , from a party that be out of idea and have be unable to provide the stability that business need . it be also one of recklessness with the public finance , both when the previous Prime Minister crash the economy , and now that the current Prime Minister have make a £ 46 billion unfunded pledge to scrap national insurance . it be time to turn the page and turn a corner — time to give british people the chance to change our country ' s Government by call a general election . I wholeheartedly support the Bill . I have a couple of point to make to the Minister , and a couple of response that the shadow Minister might be interested to hear . in response to the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) on the loan charge , the Minister say that he be not minded to accept an amendment , but would always listen . I like the Minister . he will be aware that the loan charge have create significant concern and problem for people . he will be aware that the loan charge policy have be in place for a long time and have not make the progress anticipate initially . may I say to he that it be time to draw a deadline on that policy and for HMRC to find a different way to provide resolution and , may I say , relief to those affect ? would the hon . Gentleman accept that the policy have not only fail to bring in the revenue that the Government intend , but lead to a number of people commit suicide because of the pressure put on they by HMRC ? my right hon . friend have voice the concern that I know will rest on the conscience of my hon . friend the Minister , and he be right to add that . may I put a second conscientious point to the Minister — this point be also make by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) — which relate to the scoring for contaminate blood ? that be not include in the Budget , which will have disappoint a considerable number of member of Parliament from all part of the House . it would be helpful if the Chancellor come forward with some view on that . will my hon . friend look at that ? thirdly , will the Minister be encourage by the word of my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) and his analysis of the charge impose on the Treasury by the Bank of England as a result of the quantitative tighten policy ? the UK ' s policy on quantitative tightening be exceptional . few other central bank — many of which indulge in the bizarre quantitative easing policy 15 year ago , after the financial crash under the last Labour Government — do it , and it be now a real charge that have real effect on the real economy in the country . the exceptional way in which we be treat quantitative tightening charge — essentially , we take they on the book , the Treasury get charge for it , and it have to go into the scoring that the OBR and other do — do not go on in other european country . there be discretion on how it can be put across , and in the US the charge be absorb but the Government be not charge . that be an important policy point , and I would be interested to hear whether the Minister would accept an amendment on that in Committee , although I think not . prosaically , or simply , HMRC have be in the headline for not answer phone call and for say it would go on holiday . I be pleased that the Minister reverse that straightaway , and I know many taxpayer will be pleased about that . many who will be look to fill in their self - assessment form will be surprised that they can not download form SA100 — they have to call HMRC to download a copy , whether or not they want to file it by paper . that seem a little odd , if hmrc ' s phoneline be under pressure . will the Minister , who have be responsive on point to date , look into that ? I will turn to the shadow Minister ' s speech — I like he too . as he in his own mind " prepare for government " , he and his colleague may wish to get a well grasp on reality . when he rightly talk about the importance of set clarity for investment , it be important that those look at investment think that those in charge of the public finance know what be go on . he talk about record tax rise under this government . let I ask he these question . do he disagree with funding of the furlough programme ? do he disagree with the energy price support ? do he disagree with the increase in funding for the NHS ? do he disagree with record number of police officer ? if he do not disagree with any of those , he would recognise , if he have a grasp on reality , that he would have to fund those through increase taxation or increase — [ interruption . ] he have an answer , so would he like to come in ? [ interruption . ] Mr Deputy Speaker , I think he have an answer . the hon . Gentleman be ask I what I disagree with . I disagree with the low growth that have be true of this Government . I disagree with billion of pound be waste in covid fraud and in other way by the Government . I disagree with how the Government be now oversee the high tax burden in 70 year and have no plan to get the economy grow . that be what I disagree with . the hon . member mention growth rate , fraud and the record tax burden . I be make a point about the record tax burden , and he can not respond to that challenge by repeat that he be concerned about it . he talk about low growth — he should go to Germany or France , which have low growth than the UK . he should go to the majority of G7 country , where he will find low growth than in the UK . he be mistake — [ interruption . ] would he like to intervene again ? no . I be try to be helpful , obviously . the hon . Member and the shadow Treasury team wish to be take seriously , but he will know that the point about growth be difficult to work through , with western economy not grow as fast as they have do . the UK be grow fast on average than other country , and he need to give some credit for that rather than just say that low growth be the case . more importantly , if the hon . Member and the Labour party believe in furlough , the energy price scheme , the record increase in NHS funding and more police — they support most of those programme — they must recognise that those must be pay for in government , and that mean hard choice . what the Prime Minister and the Chancellor have do be make those hard choice . make people feel bad about historical hard choice be not a policy for a future government . we seem to be engage in an unexpected back - and - forth . the hon . Gentleman do not mention covid fraud . as he might know , we have set out our plan for a covid corruption commissioner . would he support that — yes or no ? of course , everyone support crack down on fraud , and I would be very happy — [ interruption . ] if I may , I would be happy to look at the Labour party ' s specific proposal . but the hon . member will also know that when the Labour party talk about fraud , particularly when it come to personal protective equipment and the furlough programme , it conflate two thing . for example , with the coronavirus loan programme , Labour be conflate money that have not repay because business have go bust , or because company have not pay they back yet , with money that have be lose fraudulently . when I look at his proposal , I want to ensure that when labour talk about the amount that have be lose , they relate to actual example of fraud and not to the way in which , in a difficult situation where people ' s business could have be close , money be give out by the Treasury to other . if that be the case , I be happy to look at that . my second point to the opposition — before I get on to what I want to say — be that I hold no torch for the former Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , but when the hon . Member and his colleague talk about crash the economy and about people ' s mortgage rate , as I think the Leader of the Opposition do at Prime Minister ' s question , may I gently urge they to look at the Bernanke review that have just be complete on Bank of England forecasting ? that have a number of important point about how the Bank of England could improve its forecasting . it also compare interest rate for the seven central bank that Ben Bernanke , the former head of the US Federal Reserve , have use as his comparator — in figure 12 in the report . if the hon . member look at that , he will see that UK interest rate in 2019 be in the middle of the pack , UK interest rate in 2020 be in the middle of the pack , UK interest rate in 2021 be in the middle of the pack , UK interest rate in 2022 be in the middle of the pack and UK interest rate in 2023 be in the middle of the pack . UK interest rate as we enter 2024 be in the middle of the pack . it be simply not true to say that something exceptional happen to UK interest rate in any part of this Parliament . again , if the hon . member wish to be take seriously in government , he need to get a grip on reality , not on fantasy . I will now turn , if I may , to the thing that I would like to say . [ laughter . ] I do promise the whip that I would take only 10 minute , so I promise to take only 10 minute , from now . clause 12 set the corporation tax rate . I see my friend the hon . member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Alistair Strathern ) in his place on the Opposition Benches . I think that both he and I be pleased that Government and Opposition Front - Bench Members have make clear their commitment for full expensing . that be particularly important to the people of Bedfordshire because there be a potential investment pende in his constituency . I would like to put on record our thank to the two Front - Bench team for set out the clear future framework for how that will work . let I turn to income tax rate in clause 2 , because it be important to look at the history . as my hon . friend the Minister mention , the record of successive conservative government from 2010 for work people in this country be strong . he mention the increase in the personal allowance from £ 6 , 475 in 2010 to £ 12 , 570 this financial year . that be a 21 % real increase . however , my hon . friend do not mention the change in the minimum wage , which have go up from £ 5 . 80 in 2010 to the living wage now of £ 11 . 44 . that be a 23 % real increase in wage . high wage for work people and low taxis for those on low income be a very strong record . however , my hon . friend need to look at the high rate threshold , because in 2010 it be £ 37 , 400 , and now it be £ 37 , 700 . in today ' s money , the 2010 amount would be set at £ 59 , 800 . in essence , there have be a 37 % decrease in earning when people hit the high threshold . it may not be popular politically , but economically such a substantial differentiation in the way we tax people on middle and high income from those on low income have long - term implication . after the Budget , people who have retire , have be thrifty and save money and have a private pension now find themselves complain that , although they be get their increase in the basic pension — or maybe not — they be be drag into the high rate of taxation . successive conservative government have reward work — they have want people to work hard , be entrepreneurial , and grow their business and the economy — so please , can we look at the way in which that particular threshold should change ? quite rightly , the Prime Minister and the Chancellor have indicate that they wish to simplify taxation on work people . that be completely consistent with the long - run approach of the Conservatives to taxation on work . the aspiration to reduce national insurance be an excellent way of look at that . unlike the opposition , I would say that there be a difficulty in politic of find time to make quite significant change . this may be such a time — I know that Ministers will be look at this — partially because we have quite significant issue of overall taxation that we need to reduce , but there be the opportunity for other reason as well . reallocation of exist taxis be easy when the tax burden be exceptionally high . I be a low - tax Conservative . I recognise , unlike some , that when we buy thing , we have to pay taxis on they . but we know that this tax rate be unusually high , and we know that we will reduce that tax burden . it be a propitious time to look at way of reduce national insurance contribution over the next five year . the Budget forecast fiscal drag to be £ 28 billion to £ 33 billion per annum for the next three or four year . there be an ethical and moral case for want to give back more money to people by reduce national insurance contribution . however , my proposal be for the Government to consider not that national insurance reduction should go directly into pay packet , but that national insurance contribution should be add to people ' s long - term saving through compulsory saving scheme . many country have recognise that the idea of state pension be base upon the " never , never " be not a secure way to provide for long - term pension . we have never really grasp the nettle in this country — Singapore do it right at the start and Australia do it in the 1990 . there be an opportunity for we to build on the work that Sir Stephen Webb do in the coalition Government through change to national insurance contribution . that would ensure that work people be the first generation to have a truly secure pension that be their money , where they do not have to rely on the vagary of what a particular Chancellor of the day might do to pension , and they would have only one tax on their wage during their career . finagle people in other party like to increase taxis , and have two taxis to increase give they more flexibility . an opportunity would be provide to extend the saving stake — the way that people save for thing — beyond provide for their retirement , so that they could , as they do in Singapore , put money into their first home . by look in a new way at how we treat citizen in this country , we could move towards a saving state and away from a socialist never - never state . I leave my hon . friend the Minister to consider those comment . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House decline to give a second reading to the Finance ( no . 2 ) bill because it fail to make a much - need reduction in vat for the hospitality and tourism sector ; fail to reintroduce tax - free shopping for international visitor ; do not establish a more progressive tax system by introduce a starter rate , in line with the Scottish Government ' s approach ; fail to introduce measure through the tax system that would help alleviate the cost of live crisis and reduce inequality ; and fail to introduce tax relief measure to enable vital high - growth sector , like the renewable sector , to grow the economy ; and because it derive from a budget which propose to extend the Energy ( Oil and Gas ) profit Levy , threaten the security of job in north east Scotland and the UK ' s ability to achieve net zero . " the Bill fall woefully short of the mark . the Scottish National party have table a reason amendment on Second Reading because , frankly , its provision do not rise to the immense challenge face by our constituent . the UK Government seem to operate under the illusion that the Tory Brexit cost of living crisis have come to an end , yet the reality on the ground , in home across Scotland and the other UK nation , tell a different story . indeed , a UK poll out today show that 61 % of people think the UK Government be not take the measure require for the cost of living . the bad news for Labour be that they do not believe it be propose the right thing either . the Bill , as it stand , be a stark testament to a Government who be — as we have hear , and I agree — out of touch , out of idea and soon to be out of office . but let we be clear that the proposal in the Bill be insufficient to support household in Scotland , who continue to bear the brunt of disastrous decision make in Westminster . the spring Budget bring devastating cut to scottish capital funding , yet there remain a pervasive silence among the Westminster party about the true scale of cut plan over the next Parliament to meet the arbitrary fiscal rule that they be both slavishly follow . I note that the Labour Front Bench say " hee - haw " about public service funding over the come year , despite the £ 20 billion hole that we know will lead to further misery in public service . there be element in the Bill , such as the marginal increase in child benefit and the limited support for the film sector , which we can view as step in the right direction , but they be but drop in the ocean compare with the vast need of our community . for a UK Government who claim economic competence , it be astounding how little they understand about nurture true economic growth , or enhance productivity . austerity have fail . it can not be make to work , yet those in the Labour party continue to pretend that somehow it can . we agree with the Labour party that for every £ 5 come out of the Budget for people , they be pay £ 10 back in , so the question that Labour Members must answer be : why be they not vote against Second Reading tonight ? why be they go to , once again , sit on their hand and allow the Bill to go through ? as I have say , not a word on public service . the reality be a continue decline in disposable income , a shameful record on inequality — the high in any major european country — and a gdp per capita on its long downward trajectory since record begin . moreover , the Chancellor ' s measure be predict to have a minimal impact on economic turnaround this year and it be highly probable that the Government will have oversee the bad Parliament for income growth in recent history . Scotland have the high wage in the UK , accord to medium gross weekly income , thank to the work of the SNP Government on promote fair wage and lead by example . however , the power to avoid the scale of fall real income reside here in Westminster . that fall be unprecedented over the past six decade . hundred of thousand of people in Scotland and across the nation of the UK be lock in a vicious cycle of debt , with over 300 , 000 have miss a debt payment in the past year alone . accord to a report publish recently by the Financial Conduct Authority , 7 . 4 million people across the UK be " heavily burden by their domestic bill and credit commitment . " in January this year , nearly 6 million UK adult report have no disposable income at all . the ongoing cost of living crisis continue to degrade living standard , with family struggle under the weight of high food price , exorbitant mortgage rate and escalate energy cost that be push more and more household into debt . food price be about to spike yet again , and we can put that squarely down to Brexit — the love child of the Tory right , now adopt by the Labour party and the Liberal Democrats . a report from Allianz Trade suggest that control to be introduce in May will increase import cost by 10 % in the first year , impose £ 2 billion of extra cost on UK business and exacerbate the cost of living crisis . food price have already rise by more than a quarter since a couple of year ago owe to exist Brexit change . this be a turbo - boost on top of what people have be face . where be the help for people as food bank queue grow long and the ability to donate to those food bank dwindle ? it be non - existent . whatever the cost to household , whoever starve , " make Brexit work " seem to be the consensus of the Westminster party , and especially this Tory Government . even if we put aside our squander EU membership , the fact be that they will not implement the basic food protection that other government have use and we have call for . this be Westminster negligence , and a failure to observe the basic value of fairness . particularly press be the escalate crisis of fuel poverty that grip many of our community . how can it be right , in the 21st century , that there exist an energy poll tax of standing charge ? in the highland and island , the electricity standing charge for household — the charge that have to be pay every single day , cold or warm — be 50 % high than it be in London . how can that be fair ? why have the UK Government sanction this blatant inequality ? should the Bill not be do something to fix it ? this Bill could have provide for the scrapping of standing charge . the Government should be act with urgency to start provide meaningful rebate for the people who live in the area with the great degree of fuel poverty , include extreme fuel poverty — again , by the way , the highland and island . the irony be not lose on people live in an area that export more than six time the amount of the electricity that it use , and see massive tax return go to the Chancellor ' s Treasury while they suffer this injustice . at a bare minimum , the Bill could have usher in legislation for a long overdue energy social tariff . Citizens Advice have report a 14 - fold increase in the number of client seek advice relate to fuel poverty since 2019 . the average fuel debt that client present to Citizens Advice Scotland be now more than £ 2 , 300 . that be not merely a statistic ; it be a damn indictment of the current Government ' s policy . my hon . friend be make some excellent point about fuel poverty . when I conduct a survey of Dalmarnock resident about its impact , I find that it have a hugely detrimental effect on their health and wellbeing . they could not even invite family member round because their house be cold and they could not afford to switch the kettle on to give they a cup of tea . pensioner be go to bed together early because they could not afford to keep the heating on . do my hon . friend think the Government understand the dire consequence of fuel poverty for people who be live in it ? that be a very good point . I do not think that the Government understand what happen to people . I do not think they be pay attention to medical advice , such as an article in the Lancet draw attention to the health deprivation that result from live in fuel poverty or extreme fuel poverty . they do not understand the effect on child ' s learn and wellbee over this period , or , ironically , the high cost to public service as a consequence of fuel poverty : for instance , people have to rely on the NHS more because of associate health condition . the Bill be do nothing substantial to alleviate such dire circumstance . before I move on to other issue , I have to ask why the Bill have no update action to stop company take advantage of the cost of living crisis . for example , the Government be aware , as be the Financial Conduct Authority , that car insurance in the UK be now 34 % high , and that young and old driver have see big premium increase than other . the claim rate be under 18 % , premium have increase by 34 % , and average premium for some age group have jump by over 50 % . surprise , surprise : driver in Scotland be among those who have see their premium rise the most . this time , however , it be something they share with Londoners . the Government can not put that down to the fact that there be different market force and so on , because insurance premium have rise by only 2 % in France , 5 % in Spain and 6 % in Italy , so what be go on ? the Bill contain no action on end - of - contract scam by mobile and broadband operator either . the Government be allow a punish cost of live free - for - all to continue while they be distract with feed their culture war and give peerage to their pal and donor . while the UK Government remain idle , pretend that the cost of living crisis have end , the Scottish Government have take proactive step to tackle inequality and reduce child poverty . they have implement game - change policy such as the scottish child payment , which have lift 100 , 000 child out of fuel poverty , yet it be an uphill swim to protect family while Westminster make the big and wrong decision . austerity continue to hinder necessary investment that be essential for Scotland ' s burgeon industry . Brexit have disastrously impact on our economic activity , international standing and business confidence . investment in the UK remain the low among the G7 country . it be common for the Tories , and indeed the Labour party , to say that there be no magic money tree when it come to public finance , which be why they must always cut , cut , cut to follow their so - call fiscal rule . but here be the rub : the close thing we have to a magic money tree be our EU membership , which could still be add to our reserve . accord to research by Bloomberg , Goldman Sachs , Cambridge Econometrics and other , around 5 % of our annual gdp have be lose because of Brexit . if we have that back , it would generate well over £ 100 billion per year , generate a potential tax take for the Treasury of over £ 40 billion per annum . we could plug the hole — we do not have to be go through this — but that be not the path that have be decide for we . the Government have hack the tree down to mulch , and all that they and Labour can do now be promise more cut . the Bill fail business and industry , too . the SNP have long advocate a £ 28 billion annual investment and a robust green industrial strategy to harness the full potential of the green transition . labour use to agree — indeed , its adviser be annoyed that the party be not go forward with it — but it have reverse on that policy , as be confirm early . such an approach be essential if we want to meet our climate change target . indeed , as we stand at the moment — with Scotland as part of the UK — it be one of the few industry that the UK could take forward with gusto . despite the obvious need , what have the UK Government do ? they have only recently decide to boost funding in allocation round 6 for offshore wind project — an effort still inefficient to meet the necessary target . follow the failure of the fifth round of contract for difference allocation to secure any new product , it be unacceptable that the Government have fail to rectify the shortfall in deploy capacity , leave we well behind our 21 GW target for the upcoming round . this Bill be a testament to the UK Government ' s ongoing failure to adequately invest in the renewable sector , thereby endanger our net zero target , jeopardise energy security and stunt the long - term growth of scottish community . it be time for a drastic change , and we need a Government who will be align with the need of the scottish people in the future — an independent Scottish Government . where in the Bill be the action to help our tourism and hospitality industry ? selective cut to vat would have be a mechanism that could have be deploy to help those sector , and it could and should have be use to help struggle high street and town centre . where be the vat - free shopping that business organisation be cry out for ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way on the point about vat - free shopping . we lead the charge a number of year ago on the extra - statutory concession on the removal of vat - free shopping at airport , which be crucial to Glasgow airport in my constituency . we even manage to get the hon . member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) to vote with we on that occasion , but we have still see no action from this Government to conclude that . that be one of the excellent point in our reason amendment . do my hon . friend agree that it be the SNP that will be work for the people of Scotland , not this Government ? that be exactly right . this be one of the many thing that the UK Government have be call on to do , but they have be deaf to industry ask for they and often beg for help on some of these issue . this spring Budget have introduce disastrous cut to scottish capital funding , with the aforementioned conspiracy of silence that the Institute for Fiscal Studies identify permeate the hall of Westminster concern the severity of cut plan over the next Parliament . this government ' s legacy will undoubtedly be mark by the failure of their austerity measure , the calamitous aftermath of Brexit and the misguided policy — " misguided " be a very gentle word — of Trussonomics . austerity under the Tories have strip our public service to the bone , exacerbate inequality and decimate living standard . this addiction to austerity , pair with the Government ' s fiscal rule , have prove utterly ineffective at reduce debt , which as a percentage of GDP have triple in the past 15 year . the House of Commons Library have reveal that the scottish block grant be set to fall to its low - ever level as a percentage of UK Government spending in the history of devolution . between 2023 and 2025 , scottish capital funding from the UK Parliament be project to fall by 16 . 1 % in real term . these Tory cut continue to wreak havoc across all area of the UK , with council across England on the brink of bankruptcy and many already in special measure . regrettably , austerity will not end with the demise of the Tory party , as the Labour party be also commit to these same spending plan and fiscal rule . both the Tories and Labour be engage in that conspiracy of silence . they have have the opportunity to talk about the level of austerity necessary , in their view , over the next Parliament , but their silence threaten to cripple the already underfunde public service across the UK . with an estimate further £ 20 billion of cut need , by their calculation , over the next Parliament , it be imperative that both Westminster party come clean ahead of the general election about the level of austerity they intend to impose on Scotland and the rest of the UK . the public have a right to know the extent to which these party plan to decimate our public service , should they come to office , and to be tell explicitly which department will suffer the most severe funding cut . we know that they be both in favour of increase the privatisation of the NHS to facilitate their plan . let ' s hear the rest . all we have here today be a zombie Bill from a zombie Government at the fag end of a zombie Parliament , with activity in this Chamber at record low . the Chancellor ' s recent spending plan not only cut funding in Scotland but extend taxis on Scotland ' s natural resource , which , as we hear early from across the Chamber , have be fund the UK ' s economy for so many year . the Government be offer little to stimulate growth in the scottish economy , and it be abundantly clear that neither of the Westminster party possess the ambition require to invest adequately in our economy and reduce inequality . in Scotland , the SNP be support people through the cost of live crisis by freeze council tax , which be already low by hundred of pound a year than in the rest of the UK ; by use progressive taxation to ensure that the majority still pay less income tax and the minority who can afford it pay a little more ; by support work people ; by ensure a strike - free NHS with well - pay nurse and doctor , and commit to keep it in public hand , just like ScotRail , Scottish Water and more ; and by help family with 1 , 140 hour of free childcare , no tuition fee for student , and much more . in Westminster , we have be give Brexit , a loss of more than £ 100 billion to the economy , a reduction in the available and skilled workforce , more than £ 100 billion of fraud and waste , ballooning and unfair electricity charge , high fuel debt , high food price , high mortgage , high rent , high insurance cost , and a betrayal over the £ 28 billion a year need for the just transition to renewable while our natural resource be exploit to the hilt . our ability to build new thing such as hospital and more have be sabotage by enormous cut to the budget for Scotland and more pressure on service to come . Barnett consequential be just that — consequential of decision in this place . they have consequence , and Scotland see that . Scotland need the power to introduce our own comprehensive industrial strategy , invest robustly in high - growth industry , and effectively reduce poverty . the only path forward for Scotland be to have a Government who truly plan to fix the economy and tackle inequality , and that be through an independent Government in Scotland . I be delighted to have move our reason amendment . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate . when I get my copy of the Bill from the Vote Office , I be a bit worried that the middle 500 page or so have be miss out . we be use to these Bills be somewhat thick than this . I be slightly nervous , Minister , that at this rate the Indians might catch up with we on the length of our tax code . I hope that a large Finance Bill will be ready this autumn so that we can keep our lead . there be some potentially complicate rule come , include the new nom - dom rule . we could also base the new inheritance tax on residency rather than domicile , and we also face the question of how on earth we will define " household " for the purpose of the high income child benefit charge ? there probably be some meaty stuff to come , but it be fair to say that this Bill do not generate substantial excitement . there be always a risk with reason amendment to a Finance Bill . if we vote for the SNP ' s reason amendment , we would not get any income tax this year , which would probably do quite a bit of damage to public service — though imagine that might be popular with a few people . I be slightly intrigue by the fact that , at a time when we be really struggle for tax revenue and to balance the book , anyone would prioritise reduce the price of a Rolex for very rich tourist . that be effectively what reintroduce tax - free shopping do : it save a lot of money for very expensive tourist purchase . I have never be convince of the attraction of reduce vat for the tourism sector , because the problem be that it be a huge boon for hotel operator in London that have to be pay for by taxis elsewhere . I be happy to educate the hon . Gentleman . if he would like to speak to any of the tourism organisation that have be call for this change , he will find that it be a great way for they not only to cope with some of the increase cost they have just now , which be front - load their business , but to encourage people to come and use their facility . it be something that the tourism industry be very keen on , and I would be delighted to introduce the hon . gentleman to some people who will educate he far . it be a pity that the hon . Gentleman do not make the case for that in his own speech , when he barely touch on this issue . the point I be try to make be that introduce that tax reduction would be a huge benefit to London hotel , which have high occupancy rate at a very high nightly rate , but then that money would have to be raise elsewhere in the country . one of the advantage of Brexit — the hon . Gentleman might not like this — be we be now able to do differential tax rate by region . therefore , if we want a tax rate target at boost tourism , we could do it on a regional basis , look at which have the low occupancy rate and the low employment rate . it would cost far less , and the reduction could be much small . we could boost investment where it be need rather than where it be not . I suggest to the hon . Gentleman that look at that would be more sensible than his proposal . the hon . Gentleman be also criticise the lack of a starter rate . when we have a starter rate of income tax , from 1998 to 2008 , it be for very low income . it be a 10p rate and it be charge on top of national insurance , which be also over 10 % at that point . what we actually have now be income tax and national insurance start at a much high point . it be a 0 % starter rate , which be a far well idea than introduce a new one , so I certainly will not be vote for the reason amendment , as it would be completely against the country ' s interest . the Minister mention the high - income child benefit charge . strangely , the Bill increase the threshold and promise a radical change at the start of the tax year after the next one , but it do not tell we what the Government be try to achieve by that . we have rightly up the starting point , but if we really want to go to a household calculation , either we should be very generous and have it start at £ 120 , 000 , taper up to £ 160 , 000 — the equivalent of two income — or we risk make the situation bad by have a very big disincentive for second earner . if the new threshold be £ 100 , 000 , rather than £ 80 , 000 , a household with a second earner earn only £ 20 , 000 would be bring into the charge despite not be affect by it in the current financial year . I would not want to go down that line . there be a very real risk that what sound like a generous idea could have a very negative impact by discourage second earner , whom I think we want to be encouraging with our childcare and other reform . before the Government publish the consultation , I urge they to think carefully about where they be pitch this . surely there must come a point at which household income be pitch so high that almost no one will be pay the charge . what would be the point of all the complexity , uncertainty and cost of collect it if it do not raise any money ? we might be well off put the 45p rate of income tax up by 0 . 5p , which would raise the same amount of money while lose all this complexity . I think it would be well if , in Committee , the Minister introduce an automatic increase by inflation each year . it be a terrible mistake to keep the threshold where they be . by far the simple change would be to inflate the threshold each year , so that we do not drag more people into the charge . everyone would understand their position , which would be easy than try to work out what on earth a " household " be for the purpose of this charge . if we ask the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , he would tell we that the formation and definition of household be one of the big area of welfare fraud — people be pretend not to be a household to get extra benefit . it can be extremely hard to define a household and to enforce it . how much will it cost to work out who be or be not in a household ? I suspect it will be so complicated to try to reintroduce a household definition within the tax regime that it never actually happen . if it do , it will probably cost more than it raise . I question whether it be sensible to retain this charge . turn to what be in the Bill , and give that we now have a large range of earning , what be the Minister ' s advice to people who be not sure whether they will earn more than £ 80 , 000 because they do not know what bonus they will receive in this financial year ? should they stick with the simple route , as many people have , of disclaim child benefit so that they do not get catch by this tax at the end of the financial year , for which they need to save in case they have to pay it — it be a bit of shock when they get there — or should they go back to claim child benefit on the off chance ? should they put the money in the bank and see whether they be entitle to it and , if it turn out that they have not earn more than £ 80 , 000 , get to keep and spend some of it ? we seem to have a position in which many household will not know until very late in the financial year whether they be catch by this . if they disclaim it , they will lose a benefit to which they be probably entitle ; and if they do not disclaim it , they might receive a bill that they do not have the money to pay . we need some certainty on that position . my hon . friend be make a very important point . I be also concerned about family who have stop claim child benefit and be no long on the system , but who find , because of the new rule , that they be actually entitle . how can they make sure that they get the full amount of benefit to which they be entitle ? I agree with my right hon . friend . we be in a complex position . my question to the Minister be whether we could have a more generous allowance in this financial year for retrospective claim . People have not understand this change and , if they have not already claim , I suspect that they be already miss out on several week of benefit . could we be more generous so that , if someone find out towards the end of the tax year that their household be entitle , they can make a back claim ? child benefit be mean to help household with the extra cost of have child . there be a good reason why child benefit have be around for many decade . it would be wrong to deprive household of it because they be unsure how much they will get and do not want the uncertainty of big bill later in the year . there be way that we could be a bit more generous in the transition ; for example , we could allow people who be in that situation to make a catch - up claim later in the financial year . with those few remark , I happily support the Bill , and look forward to vote for it on Second Reading shortly . after year of economic chaos , unfair tax hike and million of family suffer from the cost of living crisis , the liberal Democrats will not be support the Bill today . the Bill be yet more evidence that this Conservative Government have finally run out of idea . for million of family and pensioner face soar mortgage and rent payment , sky - rocket energy bill and eye - water food price , the measure in the Bill will barely touch the side . no real help with the cost of living , no plan for economic growth , no real support for our NHS and public service , and no end to this conservative barrage of stealth taxis — be this really the good the Government have to offer ? thank to this Government , the british public have endure the big fall in living standard since the 1950 . More and more people across the country be rightly say that enough be enough . instead of more empty promise , what they want be a general election as soon as possible , to get this tired Government out of Downing Street and our country back on track . recent week have see desperate attempt from the Chancellor to convince people that he be cut taxis , in a veil attempt to deceive the british public , but everyone can see this for what it really be : a cynical deception that will be wipe out by frozen threshold , the soar cost of living and year of unfair conservative tax hike . over this year and next , someone on average earning will still be £ 383 bad off because of the Government ' s freeze on the tax - free personal allowance . despite that , the Conservatives now expect people to be grateful for their give back just a small amount of what they have take way . that show that they be totally out of touch . meanwhile , the Government be completely fail to use their collect tax revenue in a fair way . for example , they have show no interest in invest in the NHS . the economy can not be fix without fix healthcare . we need to cut waiting time . we need to allow more of the 2 . 6 million people who be economically inactive due to ill health to return to work . on doorstep across the country , people tell we time and again how they can not get a GP appointment , expect an ambulance to arrive on time or see an NHS dentist . but instead of properly address this crisis , the Chancellor merely plug a hole that he have blow in the NHS budget in the first place . that be why the Liberal Democrats call on the Government to deliver serious investment for our NHS , recruit more gps , fix our cancer service , bring down waiting list and help people get the quality care they so desperately need . unlike this Conservative Government , the liberal Democrats will always stand for protect our health service . the Chancellor either do not understand the damage do by his cruel cut to public service or just do not care . the Bill fail to introduce a proper windfall tax on the super - profit of oil and gas producer . that revenue could be use to fund energy support for the most vulnerable — to double the warm home discount or launch a proper home insulation scheme . it could be use to invest in british farming and bring down food price for the long term . the legislation also fail to reverse tax cut for big bank , a measure that could fund support for vulnerable mortgage - holder and renter . bad of all , the Bill and the precede Budget take none of the vital step we need to grow the UK economy , such as launch an industrial strategy , reform business rate and the apprenticeship levy , or reduce trade barrier for small business . the Government have not just wreck the economy ; they have abandon any strategy or plan for growth . their lack of join - up thinking have dire consequence for industry . recently , we have see the long and proud history of train manufacturing in the north - east jeopardise , with the Hitachi rail factory in County Durham put at risk of closure due to the Government not sign off an order from FirstGroup . that jeopardise some 800 job . the abandonment of the industrial strategy have real consequence for people across the country . to conclude , although the liberal Democrats welcome some measure in this Bill , such as change to the high - income child benefit charge and the provision of tax relief for the creative industry , we simply can not support a piece of legislation that fail to propose the solution that we need to get our economy move . in his spring Budget , the Chancellor could have propose a fair deal for the british people and begin stimulate economic growth . instead , he give we more of the same : another underwhelming set of announcement from this Conservative Government , which be out of touch , out of idea and nearly out of time . right across the country , voter be sick and tired of this Conservative Government and be ready to vote for change at the next general election . as I highlight in my contribution to the spring Budget debate last month , I support the measure that the Government be take to grow the economy , boost productivity and ensure long - term prosperity for family . today , I will focus on two clause in the Bill , which will have an extraordinarily positive impact on the art and culture sector in the Cities of London and Westminster , as well as across the country . first , clause 16 amend the Corporation Tax Act 2009 to permanently set the rate of credit to 45 % for tour theatrical production , and to 40 % for non - tour theatrical production . the rate be due to taper to 30 % and 35 % respectively in April next year , but will now be set permanently at 40 % and 45 % from that date . the Bill increase the tax relief available for theatre production . secondly , clause 17 increase the tax credit available for orchestral company and also amend the Corporation Tax Act 2009 to permanently set the tax credit rate at 45 % , instead of there be the taper that be plan for the end of this financial year . the perform art sector play a crucial role in the economy of the west end . accord to the Office for National Statistics , 8 % of the UK ' s art and cultural business in 2023 be base in the Cities of London and Westminster . that equate to around 2 , 500 business and thousand of job . world - renowne venue , include the Theatre Royal , Dury Lane , the London Palladium , the Royal Opera House and the Royal Albert Hall , attract audience from not only around the country , but across the globe . the Society of London Theatre and UK Theatre recently produce a study that underscore the importance of the theatre sector to our economy . their research show that UK theatre generate £ 2 . 39 billion in gross value add , support more than 200 , 000 job and generate a total turnover of over £ 4 . 4 billion every year . I be in no doubt that this uplift in tax credit will have a positive impact on actor , musician , costume designer , set creator , singer and those in a whole host of other job that rely on a strong and prosperous perform art sector . as we know , the past few year have be difficult for this industry ; it first deal with the shock of the covid pandemic , which close all show , and then slowly emerge out of the crisis and rebuild its business and audience . this Government have work tirelessly to support the creative sector in the Cities of London and Westminster , and I be proud to work with the perform art sector and other , such as ukhospitality , to secure the £ 1 . 57 billion cultural recovery fund to support large and small perform art business throughout the dark time of the pandemic . I learn from that experience , and the whole pandemic in general , just how connected the west end economy be . it be a jigsaw of complementary piece : theatre , restaurant , hotel , caf é s and bar . during that time , we learn that for every £ 1 spend in the theatre , an incredible £ 5 be generate for hospitality and other business . the tax clause in the Bill will not only support the perform art , but have a positive effect on the wide hospitality and leisure sector , which will benefit the UK economy as a whole . while I fully support the Bill and the include change to tax relief , there be one specific issue that I wish to raise . it concern the new definition of theatre production that be introduce in the Finance Act 2024 . the Society of London Theatre , UK Theatre and theatre company base in the two city have tell I that immersive theatre company will now not be eligible for the relief that the Bill offer , due to the new definition of theatre production . the new , narrow definition of an audience mean that immersive theatre company such as Little Lion Entertainment , base in the west end , will be ineligible for the tax relief provide in the Bill . little Lion Entertainment have be a recipient of theatre tax relief for the past 10 year . it employ 350 people in London and Manchester , and during its time it have welcome more than 2 million patron to its performance . yet because of the change in definition , it fear for its future and that of the entire immersive theatre industry . I would be grateful if the Minister would consider look again at the definition of theatre production , so that company such as Little Lion Entertainment be not exclude from the fantastic support that the Bill will provide . I be proud of the Government ' s continued support for the perform art in the United Kingdom . the Bill will continue ensure that our world - renowne theatre and opera production flourish , and will safeguard they for future generation . I be interested in clause 19 , which set out how the energy security investment mechanism will operate : the energy profit levy will cease if the six - month average price for both oil and gas fall below certain threshold . that provision follow on from the Chancellor ' s announcement in his spring Budget that the energy profit levy would be extend to 2029 , though it would be disapplie when energy price return to normal . my interest in the issue stem from my role as a constituency MP — activity in the North sea energy sector be vital to the local economy — and from chair the british offshore oil and gas industry all - party parliamentary group . I have no particular issue with the mechanism in clause 19 , though I be worried that the current short - term approach to fiscal policy for the oil and gas sector undermine other Government objective — in particular , the objective of enhance the UK ' s energy security , which would bring new , well - pay job to coastal community such as Lowestoft , and the objective of deliver our net - zero target . I acknowledge that the Chancellor have an unenviable role and face a significant dilemma . he be , in many respect , between a rock and a hard place . he need to balance the book , and to support those family who continue to struggle with the cost of living crisis . it be thus understandable that he look to energy company to pay more as oil and gas price have rise . they have be at very high level ; however , it should be point out that they have now fall back to long - term average . there be a significant risk that in pursue such a course , he could imperil the inward investment that be need to create long - term , sustainable job in coastal community for those very people who be struggle to make end meet . the North sea have be the UK ' s economic saviour for nearly 60 year . some might say that we be near the end of that particular story . that be not the case . the North sea be transition from be a source of fossil fuel to the long - term home of renewable . that transition need to take place as quickly as possible , but in a smooth and seamless way . it require a stable and long - term fiscal policy , which I be afraid we do not have at present . the decision to extend the levy for a further year be unexpected by industry and present a significant further challenge to investor confidence . energy company be make investment decision on project that quite often have timescale of the order of 40 to 50 year . the fact that in the UK there have be four fiscal change in the past two year deter investment and deflect it elsewhere . such business be globally footloose , and they will go to country where the fiscal regime be favourable and have a large degree of certainty about it . in the past , the UK have tick that particular box , but we be not do so at present . it should also be emphasise that , as well as operate worldwide , those business have interest in a wide variety of energy technology — not just oil and gas , but the low - carbon business of today and tomorrow : offshore wind , hydrogen , and carbon capture , usage and storage . if they find the fiscal regime unfavourable for oil and gas , they will invariably not invest in those renewable , which be so vital for our future . the initial feedback follow last month ' s Budget be that those concern be well found : investment decision be be delay and fund could well be divert elsewhere . offshore Energies UK , which provide the secretariat for the british offshore oil and gas industry APPG , have identify that £ 200 billion of investment that be await the green light may not now happen . Cornwall Insight conclude that prolong the levy " could weaken investor confidence , at a time when the UK be seek record level of investment to deliver the transition to net zero . " we be at risk of imperille the next chapter of the North sea — an ongoing story that can not only deliver economic regeneration , but provide over the remainder of this decade 50 GW of offshore wind , 10 GW of hydrogen , and four carbon capture , usage and storage cluster , as well as support the home - grow oil and gas industry and help we to meet our decommissioning commitment . in short , it could unleash an enormous amount of economic activity that can cascade right around the UK . to be fair to the Government , clause 19 do seek to address those concern , but I urge they to map out a long - term strategy for offshore energy , build on the success of the 2021 North sea transition deal . they be now adopt a similar course in the nuclear sector . we need to get back to do the same in the North sea . it be appropriate to comment on the Opposition ' s alternative proposal to extend the windfall tax . there be a real worry in the energy industry that that could exacerbate the worry that I have underline . offshore Energies UK have highlight that those proposal could lead to the loss of 42 , 000 job and the wiping out of £ 26 billion - worth of economic activity . a concern that I hope the opposition will allay be that they be look at remove the capital and investment allowance that be vital to secure inward investment . we be where we be , and I fear that some damage have be do . however , there be work to do to rebuild the UK ' s reputation as a prime destination for investment in the energy sector , and we need to get on with that task without delay . the industry have note the Government ' s commitment to honour the sunset clause , and I urge the two Ministers on the Front Bench — my hon . friend the Members for Mid Worcestershire ( Nigel Huddleston ) and for Grantham and Stamford ( Gareth Davies ) — to provide the further reassurance that be need to reinforce that message , both this afternoon in their response and as the Bill progress through Parliament . the importance of ongoing and meaningful dialogue between the Government and industry can not be overemphasise . in the period from 2012 , after the last windfall tax , up to 2021 , when the North sea transition deal be agree , that interaction be very much take place . it have be lose over the past three very eventful year , but it need to be restore as quickly as possible . if it be , we can still embark on a new golden era for the North sea : an era of home - grow energy transition , not an outsourced one ; of reindustrialisation , not deindustrialisation ; and of enhanced energy security and economic prosperity . I call the shadow Minister . as my hon . friend the Member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) set out in his opening speech , this Finance Bill and last month ' s Budget be nothing but the last gasp of a dying , desperate government . neither do anything to address 14 year of conservative economic failure , and as always with this Government , it be work people who pay the price , because taxis be still rise . the british people , already face the high tax burden in 70 year , will see tax rise in every single year of the forecast period . as much as the Government try , they simply can not hide from that record : after a decade and a half of conservative rule , people have less money in their pocket . unable to defend his own Government ' s record , and unable to offer any plan to get the country out of the economic mess that his party have create , this Chancellor have resort to undeliverable promise . the Chancellor end his Budget last month with a £ 46 billion unfunded tax plan to abolish national insurance , which would put our economic stability at risk . that be even big than the unfunded tax cut announce by the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) in her Budget , which add hundred of pound to people ' s mortgage . in contrast , the Labour party have consistently say that we would reduce the tax burden on family . that be why we oppose the current Prime Minister when he want to increase national insurance two year ago , and it be why we support the measure announce last month to bring national insurance down by an additional 2p . although on the surface this Bill leave the basic and high rate of income tax unchanged , let we be clear : this be a Government who have raise the tax burden to record level , and taxis be continue to rise . because of the tax choice that this Chancellor have make , household will be , on average , £ 870 bad off . his decision to freeze tax threshold will create 3 . 2 million new taxpayer by 2028 , and 2 . 6 million more people will be pay high rate . for every £ 5 that the Government be give back to family , they will be take an average of £ 10 in high taxis under their plan , and they expect the british public to thank they for it . while we will always call out the Conservatives for pickpockete the british taxpayer , we do welcome their recent pickpocketing of Labour policy . Labour have long argue that if people make Britain their home , they should pay their taxis here too . however , the Prime Minister himself have say that scrap the non - dom tax status would somehow end up cost Britain money , and the Chancellor previously try to argue that the non - dom status support job and that reform it would damage long - term growth . I be delighted to say that the Prime Minister and the Chancellor have finally come around to the Labour party ' s way of thinking , but it be not quite what it seem . I be not deny that Conservative Members have come a long way after year of oppose our plan to scrap the non - dom status , but there be still some gape loophole in the Government ' s plan . the discount in year 1 be unnecessary and unjustified , and particularly concern be the loophole that will allow non - dom to exploit offshore trust so that they can avoid inheritance tax . as my hon . friend the Member for Ealing North make clear , these loophole must be close . I hope that the Minister , when he respond , will commit to close these loophole , so I wait with bated breath to hear what he have to say on this policy . if not , will he accept that the Conservatives be once again put the interest of non - dom before those of ordinary british taxpayer and british business ? let we take corporation tax , which clause 12 set at 25 % . all this Chancellor have have to offer british business be uncertainty . despite promise to cut corporation tax from 19 % to 15 % in his 2022 leadership bid , he have increase it from 19 % to 25 % . in contrast , our shadow Chancellor have commit to cap the headline rate of corporation tax at its current rate for the whole of the next Parliament , and we would take action if tax change in other advanced economy threaten to undermine UK competitiveness . the opposition will be support the energy security investment mechanism in clause 19 of the Bill before we , as it will help investor get the confidence they need . likewise , we be commit both to strengthen the windfall tax to raise more revenue to support our country ' s energy transition , and to give as much certainty as possible to the company affect . that be why our shadow Chancellor have make it clear that , under Labour , our one - off , time - limit energy profit levy will cease to apply by the end of the next Parliament . we will not be oppose the Bill today , but we will be look closely at the detail in the specific clause in the come week . however , let we be under no illusion : this be an exhausted and directionless Conservative Government who be out of idea and out of time . all they have to offer be u - turn , unfunded promise and an ever - grow tax burden on work people and our constituent . in contrast , the Labour party ' s offer to the country will be carefully cost and fully fund , and we will always put work people and british business first . the Government have fail to reduce the tax burden , fail to boost business investment , and deliver only stagnation and chaos , whereas our economic plan be build on the pillar of stability , investment and reform : stability bring about by iron discipline , and guard by strong fiscal rule , robust economic institution and certainty on corporation tax ; investment , work with the private sector , so that we can lead the industry of the future and make work pay ; and reform , start with our planning system , to tackle vested interest . the british people deserve well than this . the british people deserve change . I hope the Minister will agree with I that it be now time to call a general election as soon as possible . I call the Minister . it be always a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . let I begin by thank member from across the House for their contribution to the debate on this Finance Bill . before I address some of the specific point raise , let I briefly reflect on what this Bill be seek to achieve . it be a Bill for a Budget that reward work , and it send a clear message to work people across the country that we support they . we want their work to pay and we want they to have more money in their pocket at the end of the work day . we want to continue to make this country a great place in which to live , work and invest ; and to provide our key growth industry with the support and incentive they need to continue to thrive . take together , these policy will drive economic growth and productivity for year to come by focus on workforce participation and stimulate business investment . despite go through an incredibly difficult time these past year , with a global pandemic and a war in mainland Europe , our economy have now turn the corner . inflation be down from its peak of 11 % to 3 . 2 % ; real wage be consistently rise ; and , despite high interest rate , our economy be grow , because of the action that we have take over the past few fiscal event and the plan that we have put in place — it be always important to have a plan , Madam Deputy Speaker — and this Bill continue our work to execute that plan . the Bill will support hard - work parent by increase the high - income child benefit charge threshold and taper , take 170 , 000 family out of pay that tax charge , and with almost half a million family gain an average of £ 1 , 260 towards the cost of raise their child . my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Nigel Mills ) make thoughtful remark about our intention to move to a household basis . we will absolutely take those remark on board , as he mention , and we will be consult on this issue shortly and his point will also be take on board in that process . my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) point out that the Bill will encourage investment in our world - lead creative industry — a key growth sector for the UK — with a new tax relief for UK - make independent film . it will permanently increase the rate of tax relief for theatre , orchestra , museum and gallery , back british talent in film and on the stage , and we will always champion our creative industry , which remain the envy of the world . she raise point about specific challenge , particularly on immersive audience . production will qualify for theatre tax relief if the main purpose of the audience be to observe . some level of audience participation will not necessarily disqualify a production , but it can not be the main purpose . further guidance will be issue by the Treasury , and I know that my hon . friend the Financial Secretary to the Treasury would be happy to meet she to discuss the specific issue her constituent be face . my hon . friend the Member for Waveney ( Peter Aldous ) have be a consistent champion for the oil and gas industry , and quite right too . he acknowledge that the Bill will provide more certainty to investor in the oil and gas industry , and the finance industry that lend for investment , by put the energy security investment mechanism into legislation . the ESIM operate on the basic principle that it be only right that when price of oil and gas come down to normal level , so too should the tax on exceptional profit . that give certainty to industry and also bring more fairness . my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) make a typically constructive and , perhaps , creative speech , and make a number of point . in particular , his support for our national insurance contribution cut be much appreciated . he be right to highlight an under - appreciated policy on auto - enrolment , which have see 10 . 3 million people bring in to save for a pension , with 86 % of private pension saver now participate more than they be before . we will look closely and work with he on his specific suggestion relate to national insurance contribution to boost saving . we all want the savings culture in this country to grow and grow , and we be always open to suggestion . the national insurance contribution have a separate Bill , but they continue to be a subject of debate in Treasury discussion . the Opposition ' s suggestion that our ambition to remove the double tax on work be some kind of unfunded policy must be address . let I be clear : this be an ambition ; it be obviously not happen overnight . let we look at what we have do over the past six month for hard - work people across the country : we have cut national insurance contribution by 30 % , all while increase pension by 8 . 5 % , and provide record funding for our NHS . indeed , have an ambition in public policy be not new . in 2010 we set out a long - term ambition to raise the personal allowance to £ 10 , 000 , which we do not just meet but exceed , and it be now over £ 12 , 500 , as acknowledge by my hon . friend the Members for Amber Valley and for North East Bedfordshire . it be important to set out a direction of travel for the british people , and to show ambition for what we want to do in government . not only do Labour Members not have any long - term ambition , but none of their ambition seem to last very long . they talk about change , but the only change that the Labour party offer be a change in its own policy , week after week after week , and that ' s just weak ! labour ' s policy be so weak and vague that even its righteous moral compass can not find a direction . however , there be a few glimmer of what a Labour Government might look like — what five year of hard labour might look like . for example , we know that under Labour ' s embattle deputy leader and the trade union , 70 new regulation will hamper the ability of business to hire , stifle their ability to grow , reduce job opportunity , and unleash wave of low - threshold , zero - warning strike on hard - work british people . labour call it a new deal , but let we face it : it be a raw deal for business and worker across the country . I have not even mention the thing that the Labour party be do today where it be in charge , so let we just quickly go through those : 20 mph zone , limited rate relief and long NHS waiting list , all in Labour - run Wales ; a bankrupt council , adult social care budget cut and council tax up by 21 % , all in Labour - run Birmingham ; and knife crime up , relentless National Union of Rail , Maritime and Transport Workers strike and a cruel ultra low emission zone tax on motorist , all in labour - run London . the House will forgive I if I will not take lecture from the Labour party . to conclude , we be deliver a Finance Bill that will see we move forward with the Government ' s plan to support long - term growth , encourage people into work , boost investment and ensure that hard - work taxpayer keep as much of their money as possible . we on the government Benches choose aspiration over envy and ambition over declinism . for those reason and more , I commend this Bill to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martyn Day Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn George Galloway Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Neale Hanvey Drew Hendry Chris Law David Linden John McNally Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Carol Monaghan John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Kirsten Oswald Anum Qaisar Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Pete Wishart Gavin Newlands Peter Grant Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Ben Everitt Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Simon Hart John Hayes James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Gavin Williamson Jacob Young Amanda Solloway Mike Wood the House divide : Ayes 42 , Noes 296 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans Ben Everitt Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Simon Hart John Hayes James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Gavin Williamson Jacob Young Amanda Solloway Mike Wood Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Alistair Carmichael Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Edward Davey Martyn Day Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Sarah Green Neale Hanvey Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Christine Jardine Chris Law David Linden John McNally Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Helen Morgan John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Kirsten Oswald Anum Qaisar Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Jamie Stone Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Gavin Newlands Peter Grant the House divide : Ayes 296 , Noes 49 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . finance ( no . 2 ) Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Finance ( no . 2 ) bill : Committal ( 1 ) the follow shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House — ( a ) clause 1 to 4 ( income tax charge and rate etc ) ; ( b ) clause 12 and 13 ( corporation tax charge and rate etc ) ; ( c ) clause 19 ( energy security investment mechanism ) . ( 2 ) the remainder of the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Committee of the whole House ( 3 ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House shall be complete in one day . ( 4 ) the proceeding — ( a ) shall be take on that day in the order show in the first column of the following table , and ( b ) shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the time specify in the second column of the table . proceeding time for conclusion of proceeding clause 1 to 4 ; any new Clauses or new schedule relate to the subject matter of those Clauses ( income tax charge and rate etc ) 3 hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Bill . clause 12 and 13 ; clause 19 ; any new Clauses or new schedule relate to the subject matter of those Clauses ( corporation tax charge and rate etc and energy security investment mechanism ) 6 hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Bill . proceeding in Public Bill Committee etc ( 5 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on 23 May 2024 . ( 6 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . ( 7 ) when the provision of the Bill consider , respectively , by the Committee of the whole House and by the Public Bill Committee have be report to the House , the Bill shall be proceed with as if it have be report as a whole to the House from the Public Bill Committee . proceeding on consideration and Third Reading ( 8 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 9 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . programming committee ( 10 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation with the leave of the House , I will put motion 5 to 13 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Trade Union and Labour Relations ( Consolidation ) that the draft Code of Practice on Dismissal and Re - Engagement , which be lay before this House on 19 February , be approve . Financial Services and Markets that the draft Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ( Disapplication or Modification of Financial Regulator Rules in Individual Cases ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 26 February , be approve . proceed of Crime that the draft Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 ( Investigative Powers of Prosecutors : Code of Practice ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 January , be approve . that the draft Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 ( Search , Recovery of Cryptoassets and Investigations : code of Practice ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 January , be approve . that the draft Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 and Terrorism Act 2000 ( Certain Information Orders : Code of Practice ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 January , be approve . Prevention and Suppression of Terrorism that the draft Terrorism Act 2000 ( Code of Practice for authorised Officers ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 January , be approve . Retained EU Law Reform that the draft Official Controls ( fee and charge ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 26 February , be approve . Plant Health that the draft Plant Health ( Fees ) ( England ) and Official Controls ( Frequency of Checks ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 4 March , be approve . Income Tax that the draft Major Sporting Events ( Income Tax Exemption ) ( 2024 UEFA Champions League Final ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 26 February , be approve . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent regard the recommendation of the infected blood inquiry . I note the letter from the Paymaster General today , but people have wait far too long for justice and this inquiry , and need to be compensate . it have be a year since the recommendation from Sir Brian Langstaff , and people need to have the money they be entitle to . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Glasgow Central , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002952 ] I rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent , due to the Budget fail to provide for any allocation of money to those infect and affect by the contaminated blood scandal . the final compensation recommendation be make by Sir Brian Langstaff , the chair of the infected blood public inquiry , in April 2023 . the House vote in December 2023 to establish a body to pay compensation in an amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill . as my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) have make very clear throughout her campaign , with two victim of this scandal die each week while wait for the Government to act , justice delay be justice deny . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Washington and Sunderland West , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ P002955 ] Midge Hall Railway Station Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) may I say how grateful I be to the Speaker for grant this important debate , and to the Minister for respond ? the topic be a train station call Midge Hall , which be to the west of Leyland . it provide a much - love local service , but unfortunately , during the Beeching cut , it be designate for closure . what happen now for the people of west Leyland be that a train come along to Midge Hall station and stop , and the passenger peer out at the platform , but they can not get off , and no one can get on . this have be describe as nonsense , and the people of Leyland and the broad community of South Ribble have say to I on many occasion that they agree . let I examine , with the House ' s permission , why I be try to fix this situation . Midge Hall be originally close back in the ' 60 . it sit on a line that go directly between Preston and Liverpool . I be not around on this planet to understand the rationale for the closure at the time , but there have subsequently be a significant development , in the form of a trading estate not too far a walk from the station . there have also recently be a wonderful brownfield development of home on the old Leyland test track , where the heavy good vehicle use to be whiz around in circle . you can imagine the size of it , Madam Deputy Speaker . house be be build there , and the ultimate plan be to have up to 2 , 000 people live there , within a very short walk of Midge Hall station . let I return to the train station . why do the train stop , allow passenger to peer out at a platform they can only dream of use , then carry on ? it be because the line switch to a single track there , so the train have to stop for the exchange of a safety token . this mean that there be already dwell time at the station , because the train already stop there . we be look for an opportunity for investment in new station platform access and building . there be a precedent . recently , near Liverpool , a train station of a similar age and ilk be reopen and connect to the Merseyrail network . the station work cost approximately £ 13 million , so even with some cost inflation , thank to Vladimir Putin ' s war in Ukraine , we be not talk about an unachievable amount of money to allow passenger to get on and off a train where it already stop to exchange a token . let I talk about the broad issue , because it be not just that nonsense that I be try to right . there be business within walking distance that be not serve well by public transport , and approximately 1 km south of the site , within easy access of an active travel walkway and cycleway , the Government have a planning application for a third prison at Ulnes Walton . that decision be with the planning inspector , who , extraordinarily , reopen the planning inquiry just to focus on the issue of transport and infrastructure , and the servicing of the new prison . I politely suggest to the Minister , and Ministers in the Ministry of Justice , that reopen Midge Hall station will be important in address some of the issue that be be consider by the Planning Inspectorate , give the station ' s proximity to this new development site . but that be not all . I be a Conservative and a realist ; I understand that we need to use taxpayer ' money well . the issue be not just use of the exist train and platform . there be an opportunity to make the Preston - to - Liverpool train service ze even more . as the Minister well know — he be a dedicated and passionate advocate of the railway — when Merseyrail be create , it make a decision to have train run on a third rail , an electric rail that run alongside the track and supply electricity to the train . the point where Merseyrail turn into Northern Rail — where Liverpool turn into Lancashire — be at Ormskirk , which be a wonderful town . the line that the train use stop at Ormskirk , because buffer have be put up . those buffer be purely administrative ; they demarcate the point to which northern train run the service , and from which Merseyrail train run the service . anybody use the line from station in my patch — from Croston or Rufford , for example — who want to go to Liverpool get the train to Ormskirk , stop , get out , toddle down the platform , past the set of buffer , wait for the Merseyrail train to come , then get on that and continue their journey to Liverpool . previously , with the technology available , it be expensive to try to run train directly from Liverpool to Preston because of the question of how we would supply electricity to the train . instal the third - rail infrastructure be expensive ; give the need to store overhead electricity , it be not a cheap job . here , the miracle of modern science and wonderful engineer in the UK and around the world come to the rescue , with the recent innovation of battery - power train . Merseyrail be already start to run battery - power train to solve problem like this one . when the third rail end , train continue their journey on standard rail , with no additional electricity need . they go to their station , come back , pick up the third rail and their charge , and carry on . my argument to this House , and to the Minister , be that remove the buffer at Ormskirk and instal battery train on the line will improve the service , allow for a direct connection from Leyland , Lostock Hall , Preston , Croston , Rufford , Ormskirk and the station beyond to Preston or Liverpool . furthermore , this innovation will improve the usage of the line , which will result in great footfall at Midge Hall , which will far improve the case for allow people to get the train from there . for context , if somebody who be on the Midge Hall side of Leyland want to get a train to Liverpool , they walk all the way across Leyland to the main Leyland station , which pick up a line that go via Wigan , then come in through the east of Liverpool . there be enormous support in South Ribble for a direct service between Preston and Liverpool . that would cut journey time and carbon emission , and open up leisure opportunity involve Liverpool ' s fantastic nightlife , which have be highlight wonderfully this weekend , after the warm welcome that all Liverpudlians give to visitor to the Grand National . all those opportunity be unlocked by infrastructure . as I be sure you be aware , Madam Deputy Speaker , the idea behind the northern powerhouse — a passion of many of we in this Chamber , not least you — be to grow the economic of the north of England through agglomeration economic , which be , in part , the idea that well join up community create a large spread , which allow for economic growth . infrastructure be the tool that connect those community to deliver economic growth and a northern powerhouse . what be not to like ? motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) I have speak about how train already stop at Midge Hall station , which have a signal box and a signalman , and how passenger can see a platform but can not get on or off . I have speak about the opportunity to far improve the line by create direct train between Liverpool and Preston by remove the buffer at Ormskirk that currently prevent train from run straight through . I have speak about battery - power train technology , which would allow train to run from Ormskirk to Preston without spend enormous amount on transport infrastructure . but there be one final part of the picture . Rosie Cooper , the former West Lancashire MP , be wonderfully articulate about the public transport gap in central and west Lancashire , and one more thing that Beeching remove that would make Midge Hall and the Liverpool to Preston connection sing if they be reinstate be the Burscough curve . for context , the railway line from Preston to Ormskirk and Liverpool cross the railway line from Southport to Wigan . historically , two curve allow train to go directly from Southport to Preston or Liverpool . I note the presence in the Chamber of my hon . friend the Member for Southport ( Damien Moore ) . if he want to visit I in Croston , he would have to get on a train from Southport to Wigan , walk across to a different station in Wigan , get a train to Leyland or Preston and then get a train down on a different line . in the 21st century that feel more like a game of logic than a piece of transport infrastructure . although I accept that be a large task than reinvigorate an old platform or remove the administrative buffer , it would be remiss of I not to talk about it in the context of this scheme and the case for Midge Hall . I have speak to the stakeholder , and they all suggest that the first important step be a feasibility study . a feasibility study on reopen Midge Hall station be conduct in 2019 and show a potential issue with dwell time . however , thank to this Conservative Government , we have replace the hate Pacer train , which take a long time to stop and a long time to start . there be a case for look again at the opportunity for reopen the station without affect the timetable . I be with Network Rail executive at the Midge Hall site on Friday , and they have no objection in principle to the scheme . they could see the support for the railway , with two pack carriage head down for lady day at the grand national . will the Minister consider do a feasibility study ? will he consider find the funding to open Midge Hall , and to support we to do so ? will he help I to work with both Northern Rail and Merseyrail to get rid of the buffer at Ormskirk and to introduce a battery train service to reinvigorate the line and the broad region ? and do he consider reopen the Burscough curve to be feasible ? although that be separate from the two issue I have raise today , it be an important part of improve rail infrastructure across west and central Lancashire . I commend my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble ( Katherine Fletcher ) for all her effort to improve rail connectivity in the area mention in the debate . it be great to have she as my constituency neighbour , work really hard on this issue , which be important to our constituent for all the reason she highlight . she have continually campaign on Midge Hall railway station since she be first elect , and she be not let her constituent down today . connectivity between region be as important as connectivity within region . Liverpool be in Merseyside and Preston be in Lancashire . we thank the Department for Transport for the extra funding go to both area — they be get about half a billion pound to spend from the money that would have be spend on HS2 . the temptation be always to spend such funding in a single area , but connectivity between the area be important because of all the economic activity that go on between they . that should be far enhance by people be able to move between the area by an easy train journey , rather than a complicated journey that they would be less likely to make . connectivity be also important because we have an education triangle in the area and people live within it find it hard to get around it . there be university at both end of it , which people should be able to get to easily . however , people live in the middle of the area find it incredibly difficult to get to a mainline station , so they make car journey rather than take the train . that be a retrograde step when we think about our carbon footprint . we be work on the issue . there be a huge number of stakeholder in my constituency and that of my hon . friend , include business and those in the education sector . the Ormskirk , Preston and Southport Travellers ' Association , which be one of the rail passenger forum , have continue to support our effort in make the connection that be incredibly important to our constituent . I thank the Department for Transport for its effort in prioritise regional connectivity , but connection between region might need a ministerial steer . when people in the affected community think about their journey to work , college or university , they do not think about who their political representative be ; they just know the journey be difficult and want someone to step in to resolve the problem . my hon . friend and I be do everything we can to resolve that problem for they . it be a really important time to seize the opportunity to improve the quality of the life for our constituent . I know my constituent in Southport want to see these improvement , as do my hon . friend ' s constituent in South Ribble . I be sure the Minister be aware that we will continue to campaign for these concern to be resolve until we see a feasibility study that will , I be sure , unlock these project and make they a reality , make life easy for our constituent . I hope the Minister have take that on board . we need a conversation about connectivity between area because of the passenger affect in those blackspot . rather than the money be spend on great service within each area , help connectivity between our constituency be equally important . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble ( Katherine Fletcher ) on secure this debate on the merit of reopen Midge Hall railway station and provide direct service between Liverpool and Preston . I appreciate her tireless work in campaign for the transport need of South Ribble and the wide region . I also give credit to my hon . friend the Member for Southport ( Damien Moore ) for the work he do in the same vein for his constituency . my Department prioritise investment in our road , railway and public transportation system that meet the need of our grow population , enhance connectivity and drive economic growth . transportation be the lifeblood of any thriving community . it connect people to opportunity , good to market and service to those in need . Lancashire have see tremendous growth and development in recent year , but with change demand . that be why I be proud to be part of a Government behind Network North , a significant £ 36 billion programme of transport investment across the country . this will not only address our current challenge , but lie foundation for a sustainable , prosperous future . turn to the pitch for Midge Hall station , the Ormskirk - Preston branch line currently accommodate an hourly service , which be interworke with the Colne and Blackpool South service . the single - track operation be , as my hon . friend have mention , token - control between the Midge Hall and Rufford signal box , mean that train currently stop at Midge Hall , south of Midge Hall Lane , to exchange the token with the signal box operator . train go southbound be require to stop at the token exchange point and receive the physical token , or hand it over if they be go northbound . the complete process from the closure of the Midge Hall Lane level crossing to the reopening of the crossing take approximately two minute for a northbound train and three minute for a southbound train , with the train dwelling for between seven and 10 second . my hon . friend mention that train therefore stop at Midge Hall for the token exchange , but there be currently no platform facility to allow passenger to alight . how can we help , as we have be ask by my hon . friend ? on 26 February we announce allocation for the £ 4 . 7 billion local transport fund for local authority in the north and midland outside of city region . this investment will deliver an unprecedented long - term funding uplift and be the first transport investment of its kind for these area . this fund will empower local leader to support the transport project that matter most to their community , help create job , grow the economy and level up the country . of course , we will need the support and co - operation of local community to make this a success . hon . member should let their voice be hear , champion the improvement their constituent be call for , and work with their local authority to turn this vision into reality . I be sure that my hon Friend welcome the news that Lancashire County Council have be allocate £ 494 million from this local transport fund , to be pay over seven year , start next year . local transport authority have the freedom to choose from a range of project , such as build new road , instal or expand tram line , or improve train station . we will shortly publish advice for local authority to help they make the most of this opportunity . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Transport recently meet the leader of Lancashire County Council to discuss a number of local transport scheme , include the reinstatement of the Burscough curve , which my hon . friend the Member for Southport ( Damien Moore ) have champion . indeed , I believe that he have meet his local transport authority to the same end . the Secretary of State stress that these project — the project that we have hear about from my hon . friend — could benefit from the local transport fund , but it will be for the council to determine whether it be prioritise for investment . we have write to each local authority , make it clear that they will be expect to consult local mp — such as the champion we have hear from today — as they develop their plan for spend their LTF allocation . I encourage my hon . friend to work closely with the council and advocate for the work need at Midge Hall and the Burscough curve . I know that they be look to I to play the lead in make the case with they . I be very happy to do so and to help sell the case that they have make so eloquently this evening . on the second point from my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble , about extend train service beyond electrified route , I agree that new technology have the potential to decarbonise the rail network while unlock additional destination , bring environmental and service benefit to passenger and local community . to help deliver the Government ' s net zero commitment , we will electrify additional line and deploy alternative traction technology , such as battery , as she mention , where it make operational and economic sense . the Government be support the development of battery and hydrogen technology in rail through innovation funding and research . this include work on safety and wide issue that will have to be consider before roll out this technology more widely . since the start of 2019 , my Department have provide around £ 4 . 75 million in funding through its first - of - a - kind competition , which be run by Innovate UK , to help decarbonise the railway . that include £ 750 , 000 to facilitate trial of the UK ' s first hydrogen - power train , which be showcase at COP26 . early today , the Minister for technology and decarbonisation , my hon . friend the Member for South Cambridgeshire ( Anthony Browne ) , launch the late round of transport research and innovation grant , offer organisation and academic the chance to win their share of a £ 1 . 3 million fund to seek solution to some of transport ' s great challenge . my Department have also help to get innovation off the ground by support trial , include approximately £ 2 . 15 million of rail network enhancement pipeline funding for the UK ' s first fast - charge , battery - only train . remarkably , a recent test train travel a record - break 86 mile on battery power alone . we hope to see the first schedule passenger service later this year . it be that type of technology , which we be invest in , that will allow we to reach our 2040 target to take all diesel train off the line , and will be the type of solution that my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble have rightly call for . I be pleased to see that some of those new technology be already be deploy in the area . Headbolt Lane station , which the Secretary of State open last year , be the first station to benefit from battery technology on the new class 777 train , remove the need to extend the third rail beyond the exist kirkby station . of course , the matter of further extension of the Merseyrail service , either over the Burscough curve or from Ormskirk towards Preston , be a local one . Merseyrail be a devolved concession , with key strategic decision make at a local level by Liverpool City Region Combined Authority . it be right that local leader , not Ministers in Whitehall , decide whether such project be the good way to meet local need . it be that ethos — more power and more investment in local hand — that be drive the Government ' s new approach to transport , and that have see we double the Liverpool city region ' s sustainable transport settlement to £ 1 . 6 billion . I close by thank my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble for secure the debate , and also my hon . friend the Member for Southport . I assure they both that I take on board their point about local public transport need . the fund be make available , include for business case , for project such as those we have hear champion this evening . I want to see those project be invest in , so I have great hope and optimism that we can assist my hon . friend with their campaign . I assure they both that my door be open to they to discuss wide transport opportunity that will benefit their constituent , and I will do what I can to help sell the case for their rail project . question put and agree to . House adjourn .